“zum henker diese russen!” * muttered a german.
znaim.
zherkóv was followed by an officer of the suite who rode up to the
zherkóv touched his horse with the spurs; it pranced excitedly from
zherkóv. they were under orders to advance next day.
zherkóv, not removing his hand from his cap, turned his horse about
zere’s an end of it! and how do you, a young man and a young hussar,
“zat, my dear sir, is vy...” he concluded, drinking a tumbler of
“you...! you... scoundrel! i challenge you!” he ejaculated, and,
you yourself reported to count buxhöwden yesterday, you must think of
you won’t require it. we’ll go into the accounts later.”
“you won’t bear me a grudge, prokhór ignátych?” said the
“you won’t be able to find either your baggage or anything else now,
“you won’t ask,” natásha’s little brother was saying; “i know
you won’t ask!”
you with my saber!” he shouted, actually drawing his saber from its
“you will soon be dressing your men in petticoats! what is this?”
you will see.”
you will remember this, your excellency!”
you will let me win this ten, or beat it.”
“you will find the beautiful hélène here, whom it is always
“you will change it, won’t you?” said lise. and as princess mary
you, who do not believe in the truth of the light and who have not
“you were saying, mr. staff officer...” continued the colonel in an
you were not right, not quite in the right, you were impetuous...”
“you were meaning to go out, weren’t you, mamma? do you want the
you were about, challenged a man you are jealous of without cause.”
you want to make something out of your company?”
you want to know whether i am happy? no! is she happy? no! but why this
“you’ve only just missed him,” said the orderly.
you’ve had to take,” cried he.
“you’ve grown older, tíkhon,” he said in passing to the old man,
“you’ve got it at last.”
“you’ve been in a hurry. that’s bad!”
“you value your own pride and don’t wish to apologize,” continued
you understand, your excellency, my dear sir, that you must not
you understand that my sole desire is conscientiously to carry out his
“you treat me like an invalid or a child. i see it all! did you behave
you to read when i am gone. you will find them useful.”
“you told me to remind you of the officer dólokhov, reduced to the
“you thought!” shouted the prince, his words coming more and more
“youth is no hindrance to courage,” muttered sukhtélen in a failing
“you think so?” rejoined anna pávlovna in order to say something
“you think i’m an old man and don’t understand the present state
youthful movement, stood for a moment in the stirrup as if loathe to
youthfully glittering eyes.
you that it would be very easy to do so if you haven’t sufficient
youth and his wish to express all that was in his mind.
“you tell the colonel in the presence of other officers that an
you tell me that among some good things it contains others which our
“you spoke to me of inflammable material,” said he, “but you said
“you speak to the colonel about this nasty business before other
you—sónya. but their eyes met and said thou, and exchanged tender
“you shan’t have it!” he said distinctly.
you select to be your worthy helpmeet in masonry.” and after a pause,
“you see yours is already an officer in the guards, while my nicholas
you seen duport?”
“you see, my fwiend,” he said, “we sleep when we don’t love. we
“you see, my dear... what’s that mess?” she said, pointing to his
“you see, my dear fellow, i have been thinking about you,”
“you see! i have asked,” whispered natásha to her little brother
you see i do understand. i don’t know how to put it... with this one
you say so much that is bad, does not seem to have had its usual effect
you?” said the old prince to prince vasíli.
your victory is not a matter for great rejoicing and that you can’t be
“your son,” wrote kutúzov, “fell before my eyes, a standard in
your son bids fair to become an officer distinguished by his industry,
yourselves. it must be here somewhere,” said lavrúshka.
yourself, put a bridle on your senses, and seek blessedness, not in
yourself in it. and now, when one wants to smooth the thing over, some
yourself in a position to be attacked, but yourself to attack. believe
yourself and say you nearly ruined your life and only found happiness
yours? a daughter, i suppose?”
yours.”
“your regiment fulfilled its duty honorably,” said napoleon.
your presence; if she is willing, then he can stay on. he can stay and
your old father...” he paused unexpectedly, and then in a querulous
“your joke is too bad, it’s witty but unjust,” said anna
your interests as with a kinswoman, a good, kind, true relation. and i
“your honor, you’re wanted by the general. he is in the hut here,”
“your honor, there he is!” cried one of the hussars behind him. and
“your honor, the generals!” said the sergeant, riding up to rostóv.
“your honor, i thought...”
your hands.” he spoke as if those bullets could not kill him, and his
your greatest pleasure is to be unpleasant to people! go and flirt with
your father the truth when he was in favor, and in your case it’s my
your father is rich, i don’t regard myself as a relation of his, and
your father.”
your eyes,” added willarski. “i wish you courage and success,”
“your excellency, you gave him leave yourself, on the march.”
“your excellency, should not mary bogdánovna be sent for?” said one
“your excellency,” said rostóv, “may i ask a favor?”
“your excellency,” said he in german, stepping forward and
“your excellency!” prince andrew broke the silence with his abrupt
“your excellency! let us attack them! i’ll dwive them off.”
“your excellency, it’s the officer dólokhov, who has been reduced
“your excellency, i should like to be of use here. allow me to remain
“your excellency, here are two trophies,” said dólokhov, pointing
“your excellency...”
you’re wrong to think that of me... i... for me... for the honor of
your enchanting party,” said he, turning to anna pávlovna.
“you’re always like that; you thwow a thing down anywhere and forget
your doing so; but i warn you that if you dare to play the fool in my
“your doctor tells you to go to bed earlier,” said prince andrew.
your disposal.”
your denísov though he is a rake and all that, still i like him; so
“your cousin...” dólokhov started to say, but nicholas interrupted
your battalions. i will keep out of fire if you with your habitual
you positively that hélène is as innocent before you as christ was
you please, but do this for my sake! please do! father’s father, our
“you picked it up?... i dare say! you’re very smart!” one of them
“you owe forty-three thousand, count,” said dólokhov, and
“you ought to have been there at seven in the morning.”
you not rest here?”
young. you need advice. don’t be angry with me for exercising an old
young woman, so soon to become a mother, so full of life and health, and
young son, resting on him and winking joyfully at him. young rostóv
young rostóv.
young nicholas rostóv, who with his enthusiasm could not bear to remain
young master. “can it be? my treasure!” and prokófy, trembling with
young man was an illegitimate son of count bezúkhov, a well-known
young man’s shoulder.
young man’s recent loss by the death of count bezúkhov (everyone
young man. he sat with his legs up on the sofa as if quite at home and,
young man he did not know, with a peculiar cross hanging from his
young man can inspire in a romantic and loving young girl like yourself.
young lady visitor and the countess’ eldest daughter (who was four
young ladies. “i can just imagine what a funny figure that policeman
young girls ready for anything and full of hope—experienced the same
young face to look back. a shudder of terror went through him: “no,
young ever to be more to me than a friend, but this sweet friendship,
young and old men and women pierre could not understand why he did not
young, all our octogenarians were reviewed, and of prozoróvski
young aide-de-camp with a smile.
“you need not have said that to me, father,” said the son with a
“you, my little countess, are a notorious spendthrift,” said the
“you must walk, walk as much as possible, as much as possible,” he
“you must look for husbands for them whether you like it or not....”
“you must excuse me, dear vicomte,” said prince vasíli to the
“you must do as you please,” said prince bolkónski, bowing to his
“you might have taken some from the covering troops.”
“you may punt,” he said.
“you may go,” he said to anatole.
“you’ll make a fine thing of it, deploying in sight of the enemy!
you’ll like it,” and he patted her cheek. “it will drive all the
“you’ll die and all will end. you’ll die and know all, or cease
you’ll be appointed adjutant somewhere and can snap your fingers when
“you live in the country and don’t think the life terrible,” he
“you know they’ve come, marie?” said the little princess, waddling
“you know,” said the princess in the same tone of voice and still in
“you know, prince, i am not a bonapartist!”
“you know n— n— received a snuffbox with the portrait last
“you know, mon cher, your father and i had some accounts to settle, so
“you know, michael ilariónovich, we are not on the empress’ field
“you know him not, my dear sir, and so you are very unhappy. you do
“you know her husband, of course?” said anna pávlovna, closing her
“you know bilíbin—he’s a very clever fellow. he suggested
“you just wait a moment, my dear fellow, and listen,” interrupted
you—is that that man suffers, and this don juan, wicked fellow, is
you? i’m awfully glad you’re my brother.” she touched his
you hurry up? now then!”
“you have only lately arrived?” the countess asked him.
“you haven’t read the letter?” asked sónya.
“you have not yet seen my husband?”
“you have earned the st. george’s standards and will be worthy of
“you have been in paris recently, i believe? i suppose it’s very
you have been entered in the diplomatic corps and made a gentleman of
“you have a try, hercules,” said he, turning to pierre.
“you had better take care!” said the countess.
“you had better go.”
you going, when you might remain here? you are faced by one of two
“you give me your word of honor not to go?”
“you forget yourself, colonel. i am not considering my own pleasure
     * you expect to make an income out of the government.
“you don’t understand why i say this,” he continued, “but it is
“you don’t say so!” replied the countess.
“you don’t mind your honor?” he asked túshin. “i’ve lost my
“you did not get my letter?” he asked, and not waiting for a
you did gain a brilliant victory, if even the archduke karl gained a
you, dear mary, that in spite of his extreme youth his departure for
you’d better listen more carefully!”
you cry, sónya, dear love, darling sónya!” and she kissed her and
“you couldn’t see a thing. how they shot at their own fellows!
    * “you clear out of this.”
you can undertake the theater, i society, and you, hippolyte, of course
you can’t wait a moment! don’t you see the general wants to pass?”
“you can’t come in! you can’t!” said a terrified voice from
“you can give the message to his majesty,” said dolgorúkov,
“you came rushing into the drawing room so that everyone felt ashamed
you!” came from different sides.
“you call him váska? that’s funny! and is he very nice?”
you, but why should i bother about you? you’d be only too glad, of
you, but we’ll see what will happen. buonaparte has become a great
“you, bolkónski, don’t know,” said bilíbin turning to prince
“you at least must tackle him properly, or else if he goes on like
you at last decided on anything? are you going to be a guardsman or a
“you are wounded?” he asked, hardly able to master the trembling of
“you are unhappy, my dear sir,” the stranger continued. “you
“you are the commander of the emperor alexander’s regiment of horse
“you are still the same dreamer, i see,” remarked borís, shaking
“you are seeking for truth in order to follow its laws in your life,
“you are off to the war, prince?” said anna pávlovna.
you are not aware of the fact...”
“you are most welcome! i know, i know,” said the count, kissing and
“you are mistaken,” said borís deliberately, with a bold and
“you are joking,” replied pierre, growing more and more excited.
“you are in love with me?” natásha broke in.
“you are good in every way, andrew, but you have a kind of
“you are an angel: i am not worthy of you, but i am afraid of
you are all blubberers and understand nothing.”
“you are a little slyboots,” she said.
you a place in my carriage. i am very glad. all our important business
“you and your generals won’t get on against buonaparte; you’ll
you and make you weep.
“you always manage to do things at the wrong time,” continued véra.
you, all!” he added in a tone of command.
“you absolutely must come and see me,” she said in a tone that
you?”
you.”
you!”
     you.”
yet with unhesitating assurance that he was doing the right thing,
yet with a hope for the fulfillment of her forbidden earthly longing)
yet the ladies themselves could not help laughing.
yet occupied that region, and the russians—the uninjured and slightly
yet it was she, dressed in a new gown which he did not know, made since
yet. he felt that he must not say it.
yet a young woman. escaping from her father she ran to hide her flushed
yet at the same time was conscious of his strength as a part of that
“yes, you talk, but try it yourself!”
“yes, your excellency. forgive me for heaven’s sake... it was only
“yes, your excellency,” answered the ukrainian gaily, tossing his
“yes, you’re quite right,” continued the countess. “till now i
“yes, you might, but i am afraid of getting the accounts mixed. so i
“yes, you have seen him?” said prince andrew. “well, what is
“yes, you do not know him, my dear sir,” said the mason. “you
yes! yes! yes! don’t look at me with such surprise. if you marry
“yes, yes, that is so,” said pierre joyfully.
“yes, yes, of course!” pierre chimed in, pleased at the arrival of
“yes, yes, of course,” interrupted prince vasíli impatiently,
“yes, yes,” muttered bagratión as if considering something, and he
“yes, yes; just so! bring it. give it to the countess.”
“yes, yes, if you please! it is already late,” said he, and nodding
“yes... yes, i believe in god,” he said.
“yes, yes, i am unhappy,” assented pierre. “but what am i to
“yes, yes,” he muttered, “it will be difficult, i fear, difficult
“yes, yes, go and tell them to get it ready,” she answered,
“yes, yes, do so.”
“yes, yes,” assented pierre.
“yes, yes,” assented pierre.
“yes, we know that, but the harm i am conscious of in myself is
“yes, we have altered much, very much, since then,” said prince
“yes, this is the one thing left me now,” he said with a sigh.
“yes, they are splendid, splendid youngsters,” chimed in the count,
“yes, these verses nicholas wrote himself and i copied some others,
“yes, the ham was just delicious...” answered another with a loud
“yes, the austrian prince who built that castle was no fool. it’s
“yes, that was fine,” said rostóv, smiling.
“yes, that’s me!” she seemed to say, answering the rapt gaze with
“yes, that must be so,” thought pierre, when after these words the
“yes, that all happened!” he said, and, smiling happily to himself
yesterday’s order. have you got it, denísov?”
yesterday and the question presented itself whether he ought or ought
“yes, stories!” repeated rostóv loudly, looking with eyes suddenly
“yes, so it is, so it is,” said the general angrily, lowering the
“yes, sir, and there’s a light in your father’s study.”
“yes, sir.”
“yes, sir.”
“yes,” said the countess when the brightness these young people had
“yes,” said rostóv as if it cost him a great deal to utter the
“yes,” said natásha. “do you know, nicholas—don’t be
“yes,” replied a footman in a bold loud voice, as if anything were
“yes, please do,” said rostóv.
“yes, please do,” answered the general, and he repeated the order
“yes, one is afraid,” continued the first speaker, he of the
“yes, now you may be glad!” said she; “this is what you have
“yes, my sónya could not have done otherwise!” thought nicholas.
“yes, my dear, this is a great loss for us all, not to speak of you.
“yes, let’s go in and i will get myself a roll and some cheese,”
yes, killed my wife’s lover. yes, that was it! and why? how did i come
“yes, just the same. though i don’t know what your opinion will
“yes, i was thinking”—for some reason borís could not help
“yes, i was brought up quite differently,” remarked the handsome
“yes, i was a fool! i still believed in people, loved them, and
“yes... it’s getting on, it will all be settled today.” anna
“yes, it’s from julie,” replied the princess with a timid glance
“yes, it seems he is ill. people are always disturbing him,”
“yes, it’s a nice purse. yes, yes,” he said, growing suddenly
“yes, it is very likely that i shall be killed tomorrow,” he
“yes, it is all very horrid,” interrupted pierre, “very horrid.”
“yes, it can’t be helped if they won’t take less. ah, dear me! i
“yes, i saw him, and am convinced that he fears nothing so much as
“yes, i never loved her,” said he to himself; “i knew she was a
“yes, indeed,” replied the princess with a sigh. “so he may have
“yes, indeed!”
“yes, i’m tired too,” said rostóv.
“yes, immediately, immediately! hey, who’s there?” he called out
“yes, i knew it long ago but had forgotten. i knew that i could expect
“yes... i... i... desire regeneration,” pierre uttered with
“yes, i have heard of his scheme for perpetual peace, and it is very
“yes, if you put it like that it’s quite a different matter,” said
“yes, if having obtained power, without availing himself of it to
“yes, i feel a kind of oppression,” she said in reply to the
“yes, i’d send them on in front, but no fear, they’re crowding up
“yes, i do wish it,” said he.
“yes, i do believe in god,” he repeated.
“yes: ideas of robbery, murder, and regicide,” again interjected an
“yes, i belong to the brotherhood of the freemasons,” said the
“yes, i am, but please don’t let us do like that.... in another four
yes, hospitals, medicine. he has a fit, he is dying, and you come and
“yes, he is very handsome,” thought pierre, “and i know him. it
“yes, god be thanked! yes! they’ve just finished supper. let me have
“yes, gentlemen, i’ve been told there’s a rumor going about moscow
“yes, from olmütz,” he answered, with a sigh.
“yes, father, i have come to you and brought my wife who is
“yes, everything is different nowadays, everything is changed. the
“yes, dmítri, clean ones, please,” said the countess, sighing
“yes, count,” she would say, “he is too noble and pure-souled for
“yes, but you are not the only one. there are your sisters...”
“yes, but it is not as you imagine,” prince andrew continued. “i
“yes, but he will dislike it extremely,” said bolkónski.
“yes, but between ourselves,” said the princess, “that is a
“yes, bring some.”
“yes, a regular volcano,” said the count. “takes after me! and
“yes and no mistake!” cried denísov. “you worked like wegular
“yes, and i have some money and a letter to give you,” he added.
“yes, and he is over sixty. i hear the count no longer recognizes
“yes, and even tomorrow,” replied her brother.
“yes.”
“yes.”
years ... then i will ask for your hand.”
years older than her sister and behaved already like a grown-up person),
years before, it seemed impossible that the little creature who lived
year?” said “the man of profound intellect.” “why shouldn’t
yards was all that separated them. the enemy ceased firing, and that
xvii, for the queen, or for madame elizabeth? nothing!” and he became
wrote himself,” said she through her tears.
wrong and that to discuss the bad news was difficult, and so it was best
wrong, and further that he was disagreeable and unnatural.
written, “still, i should not cry, but you can’t... no one can
writing, so that his quill spluttered and squeaked. “if you have
write, told rostóv the contents of his letter.
“write to her and let me know how her father looks at the matter. au
wrists visible from under the shirt cuffs, laid down the pack and took
wrinkled soles and palms.
wrinkled, clean-shaven cheek for pierre to kiss and would say: “till
wringing her hands.
wretched mood. at nine in the morning, he heard firing in front and
wrath. having snapped at an officer for an unpolished badge, at another
wounds, the loss of family—i fear nothing. and precious and dear
wounded where there was no one left to fire at, on seeing an adjutant
wounded were more distinctly heard than any other sound in the darkness
wounded under him and his own arm slightly grazed by a bullet. as a mark
wounded soldier was so dirty, coarse, and revolting that his proximity
wounded officer?”
wounded in the right hand, taken his sword in the left, and gone
wounded—had left it long ago. all about the field, like heaps of
wounded had been abandoned on the other side of the danube with a letter
wounded, and one knocked out,” he added, unable to restrain a happy
wounded and captured russian officers he was carried to the hospital.
would you now like to look round my place?”
“would you believe it, count, i was not at all alarmed, because i knew
would take place on this side of it...
would still remain piteous and plain. after two or three changes to
would occupy a most brilliant position in society. don’t you think so?
“would not your excellency like a little refreshment?” he said.
would not supply them. pierre was obliged to wait. without undressing,
“would not such a meeting be too trying for him, dear anna
would not see us for a whole fortnight. i know it was then he wrote this
would not have taken lovers (des amants), but i have not done so,”
would not be bad as regards the unwritten code,” thought borís),
would meet.
would magnanimously extend the hand of reconciliation.
would i not give now to be unmarried! you are the first and only one to
would have taken the icon, but she stopped him. andrew understood,
would have seemed so unnatural had anyone disliked him, that he could
would have me be, but i have never had help from anyone.... but it is
would have made them.
would have hit alpátych, the overseer, had not the latter instinctively
would have addressed yourself first to me. in that case you would not
would happen to him and still more afraid of showing his fear. he felt
would give way not only under a cannon or a crowd, but very soon even
would find himself in the position of mack at ulm. if kutúzov decided
would be wiser for him to leave petersburg. pierre proposed going to his
would be transferred to the guards at once?” said she.
would be too extraordinary,” and at the very moment she thought this,
would be to betray her agitation, while to decline their offers to
would be taken immediately to free his serfs—and that till then they
would be something unnatural, and as it seemed to him dishonorable, in
would be particularly pleasant to him to dishonor my name and ridicule
would be killed.
would be good if everything were as clear and simple as it seems to
would be easier to see people coming along it. “follow me!” said he,
would at last start on that path of regeneration and on the actively
would appear as he passed the commander.
would again have risen had not the prince still held her fast, “though
“wostóv, you’ve not been playing schoolboy twicks...”
“wostóv, get up!”
“wostóv, deah fellow, just see how much there is left and shove the
worthy of it. this rescript began with the words: “sergéy kuzmích,
worthless scoundrel whose whole life could not atone for his crime. he
worse, would have thought that rostóv was himself to blame since what
worse than others.”
worse, and it is absolutely necessary to prepare him if he is so ill.
worn leather, and an officer’s saber with a sword knot. the don horse
worn and irritable. the infantry passing before him came to a halt
world. prince andrew was the first to move away, ruffling his hair
worldly sciences of physics, history, chemistry, and the like, into
world a quite different atmosphere, careless, lighthearted, and
world!”
work. on a third estate the priest, bearing a cross, came to meet
work nearer to her.
working herself up to tears with the imaginary words of her pauvre mère
working and looked up with that curious expression of inner, happy calm
work, chimes to play, figures to pop out, and the hands to advance with
workbag.”
work and study. and if pierre was often struck by andrew’s lack
word would effectively prove to prince vasíli the invalidity of his
word “waiting.”) “not all the columns have formed up yet, your
word that hardenburg says, or haugwitz either. this famous prussian
words with vague yet joyful ideas. the door opened and someone came in.
words. touched that this statuesque princess could so change, pierre
words to the soldiers who were carrying him, now with his eyes fixed
words—the great all or nothing-” said he to himself, “or to
words), others were eating bread; the more severely wounded looked
words of rostopchín, that french soldiers have to be incited to battle
words: “morning dawned, the sun was rising,” and concluding: “on
words. if you are going to fight a duel, and you make a will and write
words he had found so difficult to utter: “i love you.” “it all
words, he added, “don’t be hurt, my dear fellow; you know i speak
words: “gallop off to kórchevo and carry out instructions!”
words could do. you will perhaps also see in your further initiation a
words but could not distinguish them. the din of many voices was too
word or slight rearrangement kept the conversational machine in steady,
word of honor not to take anything more till the spring. now only twelve
word infected the whole crowd with a feeling of panic.
word, “and you believed it! well, what have you proved? what does this
word; and he sat down at the nearest table.
word.
wooden walls redolent of pine, and would have gone farther, but antón
wood.
“won’t you come over to the other table?” suggested anna
won’t go.”
won’t get there till evening.”
won’t be in action,” he added as if in apology.
wonderful classic beauty of her figure, his face on the contrary
women, ‘women and wine’ i don’t understand!”
women’s gloves, he said: “dear brother, these woman’s gloves are
“women,” he said in a low, scarcely audible voice.
women have that dress can make a face pretty.
women are when you see them in their true colors! when you meet them
women.”
women.
woman. with a slight rustle of her white dress trimmed with moss
woman who may belong to anyone—to you too,” said her glance. and at
woman’s privilege.”
woman. now i have spoken that terrible word to myself all has become
    * “woman is man’s companion.”
woman, but there, just fancy! those three got hold of a bear somewhere,
woman; and what have you done? you have not helped her to find the way
with you. may i?” he added in a low voice so as not to disturb the
“with you i will be quite frank,” said anna mikháylovna. “there
with you. i can’t.”
with you alone! god knows how long we may again be parted. you are not
with which he listened to pierre, especially when he spoke with joyful
with us.”
with upraised arms.
with trembling hands, threw his body across the saddle, righted himself,
with thoughts and anxieties as to be oblivious of his presence. he
with the strict formality of his house. at that moment the great clock
with the soldier, an infantry officer with a bandaged cheek came up to
with these words she greeted prince vasíli kurágin, a man of high
with the self-satisfaction of a man on parade, he stepped lightly with
with the same expression on his full, cheerful, clean-shaven face, the
with the river between himself and the main body of the french. on the
with the rank of lieutenant; but as it is i receive two hundred and
with the physical pain. it was they, these soldiers—wounded and
with the old prince.”
with the naked eye prince andrew saw below them to the right, not more
with the lassitude of age, sat yawning wearily with closed eyes. the
with their plumes, ribbons, and medals, both courtiers and military
with their management and embezzlement of money, some after their first
with the hussar colonel on his left and shinshín and the other male
with the gentle, patronizing intonation natural to a man of importance
with the full swing of a bludgeon. it hurt a little, but the worst of
with the flirtatiousness of a handsome youth at sónya and the young
with the expression with which people compliment their host at a ball.
with the delight boys feel at the sight of a military elder brother, and
with the cooperation of all, by the millions of generations from our
with the air of an old brigadier.
with tender smiles was saying to véra that love is not an earthly but
with telyánin and bogdánich. that affair was the same thing as this
with such exactitude that nesvítski could not help laughing. kutúzov
with something more than curiosity and sympathy. he noticed that they
with something. it was a coffin with bones inside. he was not at all
with so and-so,’ and then i take a cab and go myself two, three, or
with silver plate, two turkish pistols and a saber—a present from
with shinshín. berg gave his arm to véra. the smiling julie karágina
with shifting eyes but eyebrows still raised, telyánin handed him the
with red light like a russian church during evening service. under
with rapid rhythmic whistle flew over the heads of the horsemen and fell
with profit. the first and chief object of our order, the foundation on
with prince bagratión’s detachment.”
with pleasure to his own voice. “all i can say, general, is that if
with particular courtesy ushered prince andrew before him along a
with papers from kutúzov to the tsarévich, he looked in on borís,
without wars. how is it that we women don’t want anything of the kind,
without turning their heads glanced at one another, curious to see their
without taking any notice of him although they were now meeting for the
without support. prince bagratión turned to the officer and with his
without receiving any explanation.
without reasoning. with an affectation of respect which evidently struck
without reading it and reread his father’s letter, ending with the
without omitting her duties as hostess, threw significant glances from
without moving, undertaking nothing....”
without male society, on anatole’s appearance all the three women of
without losing step, his whole powerful body turning flexibly. it was as
without looking at the man he was addressing, and did not reply to
without looking at him, and with a kind of fury that made him like his
without laughing, but could not resist looking at him: so to be out of
without his noticing it the feeling of offense immediately turned into
without his greatcoat, with his orders on his breast and an enormous
without his boots (he had given them to the canteen keeper to dry),
without going out of the house, waiting for the money his father could
without eating.”
without delay and carry out instructions!
without changing his careless attitude, pierre looked at them over his
without boasting that it was a little better than at ulm...”
without at all noticing that his involuntary smile had stabbed the heart
without any definite position, without relations or even a country, did
without any command being given, apparently obstructed by something in
without answering, rostóv shook the soldier’s cross of st. george
without an inner struggle; “at such a moment as this one must think
with one leg crossed high above the other. his cheeks, which were so
with one another. again the footmen rushed about, chairs scraped, and
with none of the embarrassment so commonly shown by young men in their
with natásha, piquet with his father, and even his comfortable bed
with napoleon if, contrary to expectations, these negotiations were
“with my father and sister, remember,” said prince andrew gently.
with lighted tapers in their hands, slowly and solemnly conducting the
with lanterns, standing at the entrance. she went out on the stairs. on
with kutúzov’s cantata, laid one before pierre as one of the
with kisses, holding him tight by the skirt of his coat, sprang away and
with jests and to come to business. he involuntarily looked round at the
with it to the marshals, and ordered the action to begin. the marshals,
with it hidden for awhile; then looking up and seeing pierre she
within half an hour adjutants had been sent in various directions with
within grapeshot range now.”
within a few days. princess mary and the old prince each bore and hid
within.
with his whole body as if in that position he hoped to hasten the speed
with his thin legs, went up to kutúzov.
with his small hand.
with his right thumb under a button of his uniform, his chest expanded
with his right hand, then falling on one knee he twirled her round him,
with his podgy old hands resting symmetrically on its arms. at the sound
with his handkerchief, sat down by natásha and did not leave her for
with his glittering, black eyes at rostóv.
with his glistening wide-open eyes fixed upon him and his mustache
with his foot.
with his feelings but with the very possibility of life. life without
with his face in his hands.
with his eyes bandaged seemed to him an hour. his arms felt numb,
with his eccentric father.
with his daughter, princess mary, and her companion, mademoiselle
with his cap on the back of his black head and a cloak hanging jauntily
with him to dolgorúkov.
with him. there now, sídorov!”
with himself and those around him, his smile and glance were brighter
with him remained in his room; a small box, a large canteen fitted
with him.”
with her to the side of the room where stood the high bedstead with its
with her knitting. princess mary took a book and began reading. only
with her. he kissed her hand and addressed her not as thou but as
with her head bent first on one side and then on the other.
with her beautiful eyes full of tears at the door through which prince
with her and picked up her reticule and drove out with her. how did it
with grief, though he tried hard to hide it in order not to sadden his
with great difficulty he managed to get to his horse, and shouting
with gossip,” he continued. “just now they are talking about you and
with germans all day. we went with weyrother to survey the dispositions.
with frightened eyes; the second assumed precisely the same expression;
with flour whitening their carts—on that narrow dam amid the wagons
with exaggerated politeness.
with evident pleasure.
with enjoyment, gazing with ever-increasing amiability at the other
with elasticity of movement, faith in his good fortune, and generally in
with dólokhov. “none but fools trust to luck in play,” dólokhov
with carts that it was impossible to get by in a carriage. prince andrew
with bread and salt and wished to build a chantry in honor of peter and
with banks still bare of grass. it was at the end of a village that
with a wink, and passed on followed by another, an old man.
with a trembling voice and some difficulty in utterance due to his
with a thoroughly attractive woman, her defect—the shortness of her
with a subtle smile.
with a strength he had never before felt, he made a step toward her
with a smile.
with a sinking heart—watching the bridge and the hussars in the bright
with a sigh. this might have been taken as an expression of sorrow
with a sigh he could not suppress, as they passed out of the palace.
with a sigh.
with a serious expression, but with a smile lurking at the corners of
with a sense of relief at having performed a vexatious duty and did not
with a sense of antipathy to the old prince which she did not
with a scared look and that princess mary was no longer by the cot.
with a rapid, almost brutal movement of her head, she intercepted his
with a pleasant feeling that there was something à la louis xv in the
with anything in regard to her; and that always will be so in whatever
with an old mother and a hunchback sister, and was the most affectionate
with an f, as a village elder of mine writes in his reports. she is rich
with an enormous mouth, hardly refraining from laughing, “i felt like
with an apoplectic flush over neck and nape as old people do.
with a mouse.
with a mournful expression.
“with a message to his majesty.”
with a look the significance of which could not be understood by mortal
with a look of nervous agitation such as pierre had never before seen on
with a hum of conversation, like the hum of bees swarming in springtime.
with a heart full despair he rode away, continually looking back at the
with a gloomy and tired face, was wearily taking off his wraps with the
with a friendly smile.
with a foretaste of artistic pleasure.
with a facetious smile on his face, he was telling the ladies about last
with a distressed face left the room to find sónya.
with a decorous smile of self-satisfaction at being able clearly to
with a decanter on a tray as “my dear” and “my sweet,” asked
with a clever face and sharply projecting jaw which, without spoiling
with a clear, bright expression, as if asking them to notice how calmly
with a calm smile that she was not so stupid as to be jealous: ‘let
with a bottle wrapped in a napkin passed him by. he frowned, trying to
with a bashful and awkward gesture not at all like a military salute
wish, to court society’s favor. now he alone was blamed for what had
wish to be seen in that mood, for hearing footsteps in the passage he
wish or not to be prince anatole kurágin’s wife? reply: yes or no,”
wishing to take it off, but let it drop again. the five minutes spent
wishing to show him that she did not even dare expect to interest him,
wishing to show her connections and knowledge of what went on in
wishing to rid himself of this staff officer’s company, “please
wishing to find out where the commander in chief was, he rode up to
wishing to avail himself of their courtesy, and this caused some delay
wishes to test me!” his heart contracted and the blood rushed to his
wishes to stay with me, let him... he’ll be of use here if he’s a
wishes; that is my only reason for being here. i came simply to help him
wished to take another seat so as not to trouble the lady, and also to
wished to see the regiment just in the state in which it had been on
wished to say something more, but at that moment prince vasíli and his
wished to make some suggestion. but prince vasíli interrupted him in
wished to help him but could not.
wished to do something special on meeting his friend. he wanted to pinch
wished both to rebuke him (for daring to speak as he had done of a man
wish?”
wisdom.”
wiping them on the sleeves of their greatcoats. all their faces were
winter of 1806, which nicholas rostóv spent in moscow, was one of the
wing with the other, prince andrew met mademoiselle bourienne smiling
wings, hoping before evening and before the arrival of the emperor to
wine with dignity and looking to the count for approval.
“wine? gluttony? idleness? laziness? irritability? anger? women?”
wind to carry away. a pleasant humming and whistling of bullets were
windows opening into the conservatory, with its large bust and full
window sill, with a pale but radiant face.
window sill.
window. nesvítski, moving his moist lips as he chewed something, and
window, from which the double frame had been removed (by order of the
window and from dólokhov’s back. anatole stood erect with staring
“will you have the portmanteaus brought in? and a bed got ready, and
“will you bet? the ribbon of the order is a different matter....”
will to tell only what happened. it is very difficult to tell the truth,
will they cross pomerania?”
“will they burn the bridge or not? who’ll get there first? will they
will. the races, the english club, sprees with denísov, and visits to
will slash at him!” thought rostóv, gripping the hilt of his saber.
will pass here immediately; it will please him to see these gentlemen
will not rest until they have gained their end, and are prepared if
will not reach your regiment before peace is concluded, or you will
will just be time.”
will in pierre’s favor are among the count’s papers, then, my dear
willing, are going to die in the regiment, we prize the honor of the
will come back in a rage. will you have coffee?”
will come!”
will certainly happen!” thought pierre, glancing at those dazzling
will certainly be granted. pierre will get everything as the legitimate
will be my teacher...” and lowering his big arm he offered it to the
will begin. and he says buonaparte is in braunau! shows you’re a fool.
will be cut off,” said he.
willarski, whom pierre had known slightly in petersburg society, came
willarski was silent throughout the drive. to pierre’s inquiries as
willarski bowed his head.
will all the same never be like those petersburg young men.”
will all end in nothing!”
will all die for him gladly! is it not so, gentlemen? perhaps i am not
will accept them,” said nesvítski (who like the others concerned in
wild virgin pine forest, and far away on the other side of the enns the
wife, while you...”
wife, was talking in low tones to the elderly lady about pierre.
wife, sister, and future son, and the tenderness he had felt the night
wife’s command had let his hair grow and abandoned his spectacles,
wife, how she would love him become quite different, and how all he had
wife... god bless you!...”
wife, and that it could not be otherwise.
wife and her tall cap with its light-blue ribbons, and busily filled
wife: “ah, why have you done this to me?”
width of the field, an enormous mass of cavalry in brilliant white
wider than ours, and it was plain that they could easily outflank us
“why, you remember before you went away?... well, she says you are to
“why ‘what the devil’?” said borís, picking it up and reading
“why,” thought prince andrew, “that’s the captain who stood up
“why, this is a palace!” she said to her husband, looking around
why they all looked so at him, and flattered by this general admiration
“why, that one, right at the end, the big one. don’t you see?
“why terrible?” asked nicholas. “no, váska is a splendid
“why talk nonsense? say what you want.”
“why so?” asked prince andrew. “to kill a vicious dog is a very
“why should you be ashamed?”
“why shouldn’t i speak? i can speak as i like, and i tell you
“why should i mind monsieur pierre being here?” exclaimed the little
“why should i envy them? my chance is not lost, and maybe i shall see
why she’s ashamed!”
“why run risks, captain? you should dismount,” he said.
“why not wash? that is not cleanly,” said prince andrew; “on the
“why not?” inquired borís.
“why no, my dear fellow,” said the astonished narrator, shrugging
“why is it you were never at annette’s?” the little princess asked
“why is it wrong?” urged prince andrew. “it is not given to man
“why, is it late?”
“why? i love you more than ever,” said princess mary, “and i will
“why, i didn’t recognize you!” he said. but rostóv was otherwise
“why, have you too much money?”
“why have you thrown that away?” asked borís.
“why have we stopped? is the way blocked? or have we already come up
“why, for this reason! my father is one of the most remarkable men of
“why do you shout so? you’ll frighten them!” said borís. “i did
“why do you say this young man is so rich?” asked the countess,
“why do they want to make her sing? how can she sing? there’s
“why don’t you speak, cousin?” suddenly shrieked the princess so
“why don’t you renew the acquaintance?” said dólokhov to rostóv.
“why don’t you play?” he asked.
“why, don’t you hear it?” rostóv asked again, after waiting for a
“why doesn’t the red-haired gunner run away as he is unarmed?
why doesn’t the frenchman stab him? he will not get away before the
“why did you not succeed in impressing on bonaparte by diplomatic
“why did they write, why did lise tell me about it? it can never
“why did sónya run away?” asked rostóv.
“why didn’t you mention it, prince? i would have offered you
“why didn’t you capture one, just one, marshal for us?”
why did i bind myself to her? why did i say ‘je vous aime’ * to her,
“why are you so glum?” asked nesvítski noticing prince andrew’s
why are you hindering us?” another in the same place turned round and
“why are you going? i know you think it your duty to gallop back to
“why are you crying, mamma?” asked véra. “from all he says one
“why are they down on me?” thought túshin, looking in alarm at his
“why aren’t you serving in the army?”
“why aren’t you beginning, michael ilariónovich?” said the
“why a blue coat? off with it... sergeant major! change his coat...
why.
“why?”
“why?”
“wh-what is the matter?” asked both the young and old rostóv.
who, with his face buried in the ground and a blackened nape, lay on his
who will not refuse to accompany you.”
“who was that? the military governor himself?” was being asked at
“who was that?” asked borís.
who was sitting silently beside him, what he thought of tomorrow’s
who was reduced to the ranks, took a french officer prisoner in my
who was passing:
who was kissing her hand, “you’re feeling dull in moscow, i daresay?
who was in a high fever. these last days, mistrusting their household
who was associated by memories of the italian campaign with the name of
who was a secretary to the embassy, bolkónski was already acquainted.
“who told you that? who?” cried the prince. “suvórov!” and he
“who the devil has put the logs on the road?” snarled he.
who stood in the midst of the group, without a coat, and with his fine
     who still is thinking but of thee!
“who’s that? why? wait a moment!” anatole’s face seemed to say.
“who’s that running on the middle of the bridge? to the right! come
“who’s that curtseying there? cadet miwónov! that’s not wight!
“who should it be? you yourself told him to come. it’s the
whose words struck pierre more and more by their precision and firmness.
whose state of unconquerable childish embarrassment now changing to
“whose company?” asked prince bagratión of an artilleryman standing
“who sacrificed everything for him,” chimed in the princess, who
who’s a better man than you in every way...”
who remained behind, and the monotonous tramp of thousands of feet
who recognized him and said a few words to him, disjointed and awkward,
who ran downstairs and looked over from the halfway landing.
who on kutúzov’s staff in charge of the provisioning of the russian
whom should i say that? either to a power indefinable, incomprehensible,
“whom shall i announce?”
whom i mention this, because i like you.”
whom he was again talking with the same involuntary smile. sónya wore
whom he now found nothing in common. “we will go after dinner. and
whom he had promised to take home.
who met him with the cross oppressed the peasants by his exactions, and
whom did you apply?”
whom all the regiment knew for a rogue.
who made her a low bow when she met him in the corridor carrying hot
who looked at her, after being in her company and talking to her a
who, liking work, knew how to do it, and despite his indolence would
whole tenor of his thoughts instantaneously changed; the battle seemed
whole set. yes, you’re all right! choose what you will; it’s all the
whole mass of men was concentrated.
whole dining hall, and last of all the children, tutors, and governesses
whole body jerked at each step. the eldest princess followed him, and
whole army it is still uncertain whether he is alive or not. i comfort
whole army.”
who lays back her ears and continues to crouch motionless before her
“who? kutúzov?” asked rostóv.
who kissed his hand.
who kept her waiting some minutes. “don’t you wish to serve me? then
who, jesting and laughing, stared at their strange foreign enemies.
“who is it you want?” he asked. “the commander in chief? he was
who have striven to attain this mystery, and thereby to render them
who had wished to stop the affair ran to a corner of the room and threw
who had stolen some boots from the recruits; i should even have been
who had spoken to him on behalf of her only son borís on the evening of
who had sheltered in the village houses. they all rushed out of
who had recently opened a restaurant there with girls as waitresses.
who had marched so gaily and complacently. but at the moment the first
who had lolled in anna pávlovna’s easy chairs and with half-closed
who had him under observation, interrupted:
who had grown old in society and at court. he went up to anna pávlovna,
who had evidently just arrived, entered quickly, slamming the door.
who had come up to the cot with noiseless steps, lifted the curtain,
who had come into the room unnoticed by anyone, stood there and wiped
who gives himself the airs of a monarch.”
(who gazed with curiosity at the soldiers) were not russians, the
who evidently understood his case and wished him nothing but good,
whoever he may be, exhort him who goeth astray, raise him that falleth,
who—dreading this love affair which might hinder nicholas from making
who could therefore be of use to him. he liked petersburg and despised
“who can tell, your honor?” replied the hussar reluctantly.
who came to congratulate, and who constantly succeeded one another in
who at the rostóvs’ had jocularly assumed the role of natásha’s
who at the front had the power to annihilate him, a lieutenant of the
who, as they passed through in their ball dresses with diamonds and
“who?” asked rostóv.
“who are you talking about?”
“who are they? why are they here? what do they want? and when will
who appeared at his call. “hurry off and tell maksím, the gardener,
who, angry and frightened, strode energetically along with downcast
who amuses himself in this sensible manner! and he was said to be so
who always solved questions that seemed to him perplexing by deciding
who also enjoyed the famous actress’ favors, and that in his presence
“who?”
white teeth fiercely and spurring his black thoroughbred arab, which
whites glittering and rolling as he waved his sheathed saber in a small
white ruffle, outlining his rather long face which was lit up from
white plumes in his hat rode a bobtailed chestnut horse, the other who
white one, the white one!”
white horse, was prince bagratión. prince andrew stopped, waiting for
white hands with an air of calm importance.
white foam on the waves of the enns, an officer, in a cloak and with
white foam from his bit, tramping the planks of the bridge with his
white cossack coat, and bring him along to me.”
whistling, singing, and hissing continually around them. he spoke in the
whispers, and, whenever anyone went into or came from the dying man’s
whispers.
whispering, and betraying by every word and movement that they none
whisper, “has compromised her completely, they say. pierre took him
whispered to one another, casting significant looks at him with a kind
whispered to him. “this happiness is for those who have not in them
whispered, and a shudder ran down her back.
whirled round it at full speed with her dress puffed out like a balloon,
while we, on the other hand, with our left wing by far outflank his
while under the supervision of the countess and the solicitude of the
while the youngest, the one with the mole, who was of a cheerful and
while these conversations were going on in the reception room and the
while the guests were taking their leave pierre remained for a long time
while the couples were arranging themselves and the musicians tuning up,
while the count was being turned over, one of his arms fell back
while rostóv was thus arguing with himself and riding sadly away,
while prince andrew went to report about the purple-faced general, that
while prince andrew on the contrary, taking no part in the war and
while others sought some extraordinary explanation of so strange an
while on the scaffolding, in the midst of a talk explaining the future
while in the rostóvs’ ballroom the sixth anglaise was being danced,
while he tried to prove to pierre that in his actions there was no
while father and son were having their explanation, the mother and
while dressing, and yet the question he was always putting off demanded
(which would be very difficult), he would not be able to get back before
which were uppermost in his mind at that moment, addressed prince andrew
which were to be the first to descend the heights to attack the french
which was to be found “the cream of really good society, the bloom
which was presumably somewhere in the same neighborhood. and so it was
which was offered him. telyánin for some reason had been transferred
which was not clear to him, to question his chief steward, to visit his
which was littered with books and papers. the princess was as untidy as
which was a lie, and worse than a lie? i am guilty and must endure...
which to reply to dólokhov’s words. but before he had thought of
which to attack and defeat the enemy should he cross the lech. also,
which though they embarrassed pierre awakened a joyful feeling in the
which they were present, and went to iogel’s balls for young people
which the serfs’ manorial labor had been diminished, and heard the
which the rostóvs always attended. he was pointedly attentive to sónya
which the prince had retained for himself.
which the guards prided themselves), the officers on foot and at their
which the cadet under fire for the first time had experienced.
which stood on her right. it reflected a weak, ungraceful figure and
which showed that he only understood the meaning of his words after he
which she spoke of her exalted patroness, supported hélène’s wish.
which she neither wished, nor could, nor considered it necessary, to
which several others joined but which bored pierre. when the music began
which seemed to stand rather than lie down on his massive shoulders. he
which seemed to say that he was not blaming anyone, but could not help
which seemed to rise out of the sea of mist and on which the russian
which seemed to him dazzlingly red, and at the feeble, round-shouldered
which princess mary meekly submitted, just as her hair had been arranged
which nicholas rostóv served and which was in prince bagratión’s
which made a certain sensation, the count exchanged glances with
which it rests and which no human power can destroy, is the preservation
which it is difficult to justify.”
“which is the senior?” he asked, on seeing the prisoners.
which is the only thing we need fear, or he is changing his position.”
which i shall lead the army.”
which intimated that he knew what he was about and if others did not
which intellectual knowledge is divided. the highest wisdom is one.
which i not only cannot address but which i cannot even express in
which indicates that patience is exhausted.
which, in accord with the club custom, he had given up to the hall
which ilyá rostóv blushed with self-conscious pleasure), the footmen
“which house is it?” asked the driver.
(which he very likely would be), and found the commander in chief
which he presented to prince bagratión. on the salver lay some verses
which held him in their power.... the ten fell to him.
which he held the hilt of his naked saber, looked just as it usually
which he had worn on his italian campaign, sat on his small gray arab
which he had reckoned up to ten thousand, but that now, as he vaguely
which he had come out was thronged with calèches, carriages of all
which he found himself. anna pávlovna was obviously serving him up as
which he always deceived himself. the question was whether he could ever
which had lost all dignity, and at the twitching cheeks of prince
which had grown much older.
which had disappeared, but at french infantry who had come into the
which had been particularly revived and strengthened by his late tour.
which forms an impenetrable veil between us and the eternal? let us
which every freemason should cultivate in himself. these virtues were:
which dólokhov’s second had called on him, and, having closed the
which did not leave his eager face. “hoch oestreicher! hoch russen!
which denísov followed her.
which covered with snow, appeared on the landing where the footman
which changed his appearance for the worse. there was something naïvely
which attracted him. he very readily took up borís’ cause and went
which at least half of them would be left on the field. after passing a
which aroused his own pity.
which an enormous map of the environs of brünn was spread out.
which a faint smile forgot to fade though his features now expressed
whether what he said was very witty or very stupid. he was dressed in
whether she ought to write, tormented her. now that he was already an
whether he was still firm in his intention and determined to submit to
whether he was speaking in jest or in earnest. “ah, your excellency!
where you always ran away; you remember cette chère annette!”
“where would i not go at the countess’ command!” said denísov,
where túshin’s guns were stationed was an unharnessed horse with a
where to find me, but don’t forget that i do not regard either myself
“where to?”
“where to?”
where the sleighs had been left, in a small clearing in the pine forest
where the rivals suddenly recognized one another; and the ladies looked
where the hottest musket fire and cannonade were heard. suddenly he
“where the devil have the leg bands been shoved to?” said an
where the clavichord stood.
where’s the victory?”
“where is the princess?” he asked. “hiding?”
“where is the emperor? where is kutúzov?” rostóv kept asking
“where is the commander in chief?” asked bolkónski.
“where is it, that lofty sky that i did not know till now, but saw
“where is dólokhov?” asked kutúzov.
where his regiment was stationed, and take him to visit prince nicholas
where he was staying, and had been absurd, excited, and foolish in
where he could never have expected the enemy to be.
“where have you put it, wostóv?”
“where? at bykov’s, at the rat’s... i knew it,” replied a piping
whereas it was perhaps not known, since the enemy was in movement.
“where are you off to?” he said suddenly to prince andrew who had
“where are you off to?” asked borís.
“where are you going to now, my dear sir?”
“where are you going?” asked an infantry officer who was eating an
“where are headquarters?”
where a parade does not begin till all the troops are assembled,” said
“where am i? oh yes, in the skirmishing line... pass and
where.
“when you see my sister, princess mary, you’ll get on with her,”
when you began living for others. i experienced just the reverse. i
“when would you like them, your excellency?” asked dmítri. “allow
when we were rejoicing at his happiness! and such a lofty angelic soul
when they saw his looks.
when they played some tricks on a policeman, didn’t they do it
when they drink, pressing his spurs mercilessly into the sides of his
when they again heard an unexpectedly violent whistling which suddenly
when the twenty minutes had elapsed and the time had come for the old
when the sun had entirely emerged from the fog, and fields and mist were
when the subject did not relate to himself, but in connection with the
when the review was over, the newly arrived officers, and also
when the reading which lasted more than an hour was over, langeron again
when the princess, as if lost in a fog, had already staggered out of the
when the officers had emptied and smashed their glasses, kírsten filled
when the monotonous sound of weyrother’s voice ceased, kutúzov opened
when the military governor had gone, prince vasíli sat down all alone
when the emperor had passed nearly all the regiments, the troops began
when the eager but misrepeated words had reached their destination in
when telyánin had finished his lunch he took out of his pocket a double
when starting on a journey or changing their mode of life, men capable
“when speaking to the emperor, try as far as you can to praise the way
when she was not like that and when everything was light and gay. she
when she took her seat opposite and beamed upon him also with her
when she saw the count, she stretched out her arms to him, embraced his
when she saw pierre enter. though he was certainly rather bigger than
when she said this, he did not reply and only bowed, but again everybody
when she looked up at him she was struck by his beauty. anatole stood
when she had seen her guests out.
when she began to speak passed through such transitions as she herself
when rostóv went back there was a bottle of vodka and a sausage on the
when prince vasíli returned to the drawing room, the princess, his
when princess mary went to him at the usual hour he was working at his
when princess mary returned from her father, the little princess sat
when princess mary came down, prince vasíli and his son were already
when prince andrew reached the room prepared for him and lay down in a
when prince andrew left the palace he felt that all the interest
when prince andrew entered the study the old man in his old-age
when paris was mentioned, mademoiselle bourienne for her part seized the
when natásha ran out of the drawing room she only went as far as the
when it came to natásha’s turn to choose a partner, she rose and,
when i say she’ll be a singer, a second salomoni! we have engaged an
“when i saw, your excellency, that their first battalion was
when, if you remember, he posed as a sort of marat at one of my soirees.
when he wished to speak contemptuously, and noticing borís, prince
when he was dying of wounds and the sovereign had thanked him for heroic
when he stayed in (as he said) for pierre’s sake, hardly exchanged a
when he saw the minister seated at a large table reading some papers
when he read that sentence, pierre felt for the first time that some
when he reached kiev he sent for all his stewards to the head office
“when her confinement is due, send to moscow for an accoucheur.... let
when he needs repose? worldly conversation at a moment when his soul is
“when he looked at my feet, friend... well, thinks i...”
when he had gone less than half a mile in the rear of the column he
when he had become a little quieter, he explained to rostóv that he was
when he got home he could not sleep for a long time for thinking of what
when he first loved her. he thought of her pregnancy and felt sorry for
when he entered, prince andrew, his eyes drooping contemptuously (with
when he came level with the foot guards he noticed that about them and
when germans start being accurate, there’s no end to it!”
when footsteps or voices were heard did they look at one another, the
when everybody rose to go, hélène who had spoken very little all
“when did you get the letter? was it from olmütz?” repeated
whence—a stern note of which all are conscious sounds in the moral
when borís, who was to be served up to the guests, entered the drawing
when borís appeared at his door pierre was pacing up and down his room,
when borís and anna pávlovna returned to the others prince hippolyte
“when are you starting?” he asked.
when anna mikháylovna returned from count bezúkhov’s the money, all
“when am i to receive the money, count?”
when all was ready, the sabers stuck in the snow to mark the barriers,
wheel, which merged in her memory with what followed.)
wheels and working the screws himself.
wheels and the sensation of victory. then he began to imagine that
wheels and pulleys is merely a slow and regular movement of the
“what you said just now was splendid!” said his partner julie.
“what you have with you: watch, money, rings....”
“what! you don’t remember borís?” asked sónya in surprise.
“what would you have, my dear fellow?” answered pierre, shrugging
“what would you have me do?” he said at last. “you know i did all
“what would it cost you to say a word to the emperor, and then he
“what will happen now?” thought she.
what will happen and don’t want to know, and can’t, but if i want
“what? what? how dare you? what?” said telyánin.
what we fathers have to put up with.... is this princess of yours
what was passing in his mind.
“what was it?”
what was going on in the passage. some women passing with quiet steps in
what was approaching in the distance from the opposite side—the blue
“what! to whom?... nonsense!” cried the count, suddenly reddening
what to do with his hands; he was more accustomed to walk over a plowed
what there is in you.”
“what’s your name?”
“what stupid orders! they don’t themselves know what they are
“what’s to be done? she’s pretty! i will do everything. make your
“what’s this? am i falling? my legs are giving way,” thought he,
what’s the matter with you? you must be ill to shiver like that,” he
“what’s the matter with you? are you ill?”
“what’s the matter? i only congratulated them,” said zherkóv.
“what’s the matter?” exclaimed prince andrew standing still in
“what’s the good of denying it, my dear? our dear countess was too
“what’s that? what do you make of it?” said rostóv to the hussar
“what’s that that has fallen?” asked the accountant with a naïve
   what spark has set my inmost soul on fire,
what’s one to do, my dear?”
what’s one to do?” and, having given his order, he returned to
“what’s it all about? why, the french have crossed the bridge that
what she was holding in her reticule.) “so you promise?”
    * “what’s he singing about?”
“what shall we sing?” she said.
“what? saw the real mack? with hands and feet?”
“what? revolution and regicide a grand thing?... well, after that...
what pierre did not know was that the place where they presented him
“what? occupied? vienna occupied?”
“what nonsense! much i need it!” said rostóv, throwing the letter
“what nonsense...”
“what next?” the princess interrupted, smiling sardonically and not
“what next? have you gone mad?... no one would let you!... why, you go
“what news, sir?” asked the officer, evidently anxious to start a
“what, monsieur pierre... do you consider that assassination shows
“what manners! i thought they would never go,” said the countess,
   what magic power is this recalls me still?
what looked like a squadron of horsemen in various uniforms. two of them
what it must be for her, poor thing, after what she has been used to,
“what! it is as if i were glad of a chance to take advantage of
“what is your conception of freemasonry?”
“what is this?” thought nicholas, listening to her with widely
   what is this bliss that makes my fingers thrill?
“what is the something?” asked he.
what is there? who is there?—there beyond that field, that tree, that
“what is the matter with you, my dear?” she said crossly to the maid
“what is the matter with you, my darling? you look pale. oh, you
“what is the matter?” she asked.
“what is the matter, mary?”
“what is the commander in chief doing here?” he asked.
“what is that?” asked the countess as if she did not know what the
what is life, and what is death? what power governs all?”
“what is it you are afraid of, lise? i don’t understand,” said he.
“what is it? what?” asked both princesses when they saw for a moment
what is it meant to prove? what? i ask you.”
what is it i am attached to, papa?” said anatole, turning to his
“what is it?” he said crossly, and, his hand shaking
“what is it?” he asked.
“what is it, dear?”
“what is it?” asked the countess, startled; but seeing by her
“what is it?”
what is going on around them.
what is beyond death, none of us would be afraid of it. that’s so,
“what is bad, father?”
what i have seen during these last three months is incredible.
what he was to do. the coming of these visitors annoyed him. “what are
what he was saying was out of place, tactless and unsuitable, that
what he was laughing at. everything her father did inspired her with
what he was about; yet they beat him à plate couture,*(3) and where
what he should do on his estates.
“what? here? but why did they not blow up the bridge, if it was
“what?” he answered, not recognizing borís.
“what have you done to mlle schérer? she will be quite ill now,”
“what have they taken a baby in there for?” thought prince andrew in
“what have the young people come to nowadays, eh, feoktíst?” said
“what has happened?” he asked himself. “i have killed her lover,
what happiness it would be to die—not in saving the emperor’s life
“what good are they? they’re led about just for show!” remarked
“what for? i don’t know. i must. besides that i am going....” he
whatever we may say about the soul going to the sky... we know there is
whatever the import of his work. it was not the question “what for?”
“whatever the european sovereigns and commanders may do to
“whatever is this? this!” he shouted and stood still. “commander
“whatever happens to you,” he said, “you must bear it all manfully
“whatever are you bothering about, gentlemen?” said bilíbin, who,
whatever.
“what error or evil can there be in my wishing to do good, and even
“what do you want, your honor?” asked an artilleryman, standing
“what do you thank me for?”
what do we, i mean the austrian court, care for your victories? bring
“what does this mean?” she brought out.
“what does that prove?” he was saying as rostóv rode up. “they
“what does it mean? what is it? whom are they firing at? who is
“what does harm to another is wrong,” said pierre, feeling with
“what division are you?” shouted an adjutant, riding up.
what difficulty the father had dragged his legs upstairs while the son
“what did he say? where to, now? halt, is it? did he thank us?” came
“what devils these quartermasters are! see, the fifth company is
“what devil brought them here?” thought he, while tíkhon was
“what delicacy!” thought the princess. “is it possible that
what chance has michael kutúzov? no, my dear boy,” he continued,
“what can one say about it?” replied the prince in a cold, listless
“what can it be?” he thought. “the enemy in the rear of our army?
“what can he say? tra-di-ri-di-ra and so on... merely to gain time.
what can be done with two hundred and thirty rubles! i even manage to
“what brings you here?” cried the officers turning to the newcomer.
what a voice she has; though she’s my daughter, i tell the truth
“what a treasure that dmítri is,” added the count with a smile when
“what a style! how charmingly he describes!” said she, reading the
what a strange frenzy one experiences during an attack,” prince
“what a strange fate, másha darling!” and having taken off his
what a soul there is in dólokhov, you should see him with his mother.
what? a slur on my name? a misfortune for life? oh, that’s
“what?” asked the commander.
“what, are you wounded, my lad?” said túshin, approaching the gun
“what are your commands, little countess?”
“what are you making such a noise about over there?” márya
“what! are you going to remain as you are, dear princess?” she
“what are you doing!” she cried vehemently. “he is dying and you
“what are you about?” shouted rostóv, looking at him in an ecstasy
“what are they about?” thought prince andrew as he gazed at them.
“what a pity you weren’t at the arkhárovs’ on thursday. it was so
“what?” answered the old man absent-mindedly.
“what a nice figure the policeman must have cut, my dear!” shouted
“what an extraordinary genius!” prince andrew suddenly exclaimed,
what am i to do if i love nothing but fame and men’s esteem? death,
“what? a minister? what minister? who gave orders?” he said in
what a heart!”
“what a fine fellow you are, friend!” said the cossack to a convoy
“what a delightful woman this little princess is!” said prince
“what a dandy you are today!” said nesvítski, looking at
“what a clever man your father is,” said she; “perhaps that is why
“what a charming creature your younger girl is,” said the visitor;
“what about your master?” he asked lavrúshka, denísov’s orderly,
“what about capitulation?”
weyrother, who was in full control of the proposed battle, by his
weyrother’s name, or even the term “dispositions.”
weyrother’s had already been approved. as soon as prince andrew began
weyrother, hurriedly rising from his seat and going up to the table on
weyrother again gave that smile which seemed to say that to him it was
weyrother.
we women, prince,” and she smiled tenderly, “always know how to say
“we will talk of it later,” said anna pávlovna with a smile.
“we will talk of it later” (and he looked round at rostóv). “come
“we were ordered to be at the place before nine, but we haven’t got
“we’ve said good-by. go!” he suddenly shouted in a loud, angry
“we’ve got to it at last—why did you not tell me about it
“we’ve given it ‘em hot, mate! they won’t make another push
“wetched!” he muttered, throwing down a purse with some gold in it.
“wetched business,” he muttered to himself. “how much is left in
“we shall see.”
“we shall probably advance,” replied bolkónski, evidently reluctant
“we shall be late.”
were walking, driving past, and settling down all around. the sound
were waiting for them to come out.
were using their ramrods, others putting powder on the touchpans or
were turned against the ten-gun battery. túshin’s companion officer
were to land at naples, and how a total force of five hundred thousand
“we’re to go into action, gentlemen! mack has surrendered with his
were to be severe with her and to forbid it ... goodness knows what they
were throwing everything superfluous, made the eyes smart. it was cold
were those of the orderlies who were packing up; one voice, probably a
were there,” thought rostóv. “in myself alone and in that sunshine
were there, only disorganized crowds of troops of various kinds. he
were therefore awkward.
were the potëmkins, suvórovs, and orlóvs germans? no, lad, either you
were the fun of the game which interested him most.
were the center of groups which even strangers approached respectfully
were talking and listening too eagerly and too naturally, which was why
were sitting on some feather beds. evidently these fugitives were
were sitting at the table on which a plan was spread out.
were sitting at embroidery frames while a third read aloud. it was the
were sent to the crossroads to guide him over the country road with its
were saying. suddenly, however, he was struck by a voice coming from the
were really given, but that prince bagratión tried to make it appear
were ready to drop, and so said the grown-up young men and women who
were pronounced, pierre, who had so long been considering his career,
were present, including dólokhov and denísov.
were passing by. from one of the drivers he learned that kutúzov’s
were only 217 sick and stragglers. everything was in good order except
were of the same age and both handsome fellows, though not alike. borís
were not to be sent to work, assistance was to be given to the serfs,
were not to be overburdened with labor, women while nursing their babies
were not in very good condition), and instantly the squares that had up
were nicholas and sónya, the niece. sónya was a slender little
were near him. everybody said that buonaparte himself was at braunau.”
were moving in the same direction. every soldier felt glad to know that
were moving in and out among the russian troops and served as heralds
were lips seeking a kiss.
were leaving to join their regiment after epiphany. about twenty people
were in them. she leaned over to her brother and kissed him, slightly
were in a hurry to show the changes that had taken place in them.
were, “high-sounding words which have long been discredited. who does
“we’re going into action, gentlemen!”
we’re getting it still worse,” said nesvítski. “but sit down and
were flocking in to look at him. prince bagratión was thanking the
were expecting márya dmítrievna akhrosímova, known in society as le
were evidently flurried and intimidated by the directions and shouts of
were descending. in front in the fog a shot was heard and then another,
were crossing themselves. rostóv no longer looked at the colonel, he
were constantly shaping themselves in his mind, arising from the
were concentrated. twice they had attempted to attack this point, but on
were children. you might think that i... i understand, quite understand.
were casual guests—chiefly young men, among whom were denísov,
were bringing in silver and china, moving tables, and unfolding damask
were bringing in jugs and basins, hot water for shaving, and their
were being set out for eighty people; and looking at the footmen, who
were among the prettiest. they were both particularly happy and gay.
were also distinguished by the fact that she always presented some new
were already up and astir. the smoke of the campfires, into which they
were all hugging him, and the serfs, men and maids, flocked into the
were all a pretense, and that the whole attention of that company was
wept too. they wept because they were friends, and because they were
wept. she saw her brother now as he had been at the moment when he took
we parted. why are we not together as we were last summer, in your big
went, with the smile of a coquettish girl, which at one time probably
went to the carriage.
went to her father’s room at the usual hour, mademoiselle bourienne
went there and found two thirds of the men and horses knocked out, two
went out of the hut in which he was billeted with nesvítski and began
went out after shaking hands with dolgorúkov and bilíbin.
went on, with a somber and scornful smile. “and thou art more foolish
went on to the game without omitting a single dish or one of the wines.
went in with nicholas. after them other couples followed, filling the
went into the reception room familiar to pierre, with two italian
went further in among the plants and threw down the doll. “closer,
went by. then suddenly a terrible shriek—it could not be hers, she
went about the rooms fashionably dressed but looking sad and dull. here,
we? no?”
“we must let him see amelie, she’s exquisite!” said one of
    * “we must let him off the u!”
“we must distinguish between the vienna cabinet and the emperor of
“we may as well go back,” said the son in french.
“well, you’ve told me nothing new,” and the old man repeated,
“well, you see, my dear princess and cousin, catherine semënovna,”
“well, you see, i’ll tell you the whole secret of dueling in two
“well, you see, count, i want some money.”
“well, your excellency, what? your excellency! but what about your
“well, young man?” he said with a sigh, and from under his lifted
“well, young cavalryman, how is my rook behaving?” he asked. (rook
“well, you’d better not play,” dólokhov added, and springing a
“well, won’t you go on? i had a splendid card all ready,” as if it
“well, why don’t you speak? whom have you got there dressed up as a
“well, why are you going to the war?” asked pierre.
“well, what then?”
“well, what’s this now? what have you been up to now, i should like
“well, what is it?” came a sharp, unpleasant voice.
“well, what about it?” said he to denísov. “it won’t come to a
“we’ll try to,” replied berg, touching a pawn and then removing
“well, till we meet again...” he said, holding out his hand to
“well, this is strange! do you suppose i... who could think?... i know
“well, they’ve sent you a tidy sum,” said berg, eying the heavy
“well, there you see!”
“well there certainly are disgusting people,” thought rostóv as he
“well then, what do you want? you’re all in love nowadays. well,
“well then, till tomorrow at sokólniki,” said dólokhov, as he took
“well then, that’s excellent,” said he. “we’ll talk it over
“well then, tell him so.”
“well then,” prince andrew answered himself, “i don’t know
“well, then, old chap, mon très honorable alphonse kárlovich,”
“well then, mind and have cocks’ comb in the turtle soup, you
“well, then, let’s be quick. borís, come here,” said natásha.
“well, then, i won’t; only forgive me, sónya!” he drew her to him
“well, then go off to your buonaparte! mademoiselle bourienne,
“well then, be quick. we’ll all have breakfast together.”
“well then, accept his offer. it’s high time for you to be
“well, the lord be thanked, princess,” said mary bogdánovna, not
“well, that’s only till the first engagement.”
“well, that’s all right,” continued the regimental commander. “a
“well, that is hardly a sufficient reason, mamma...”
“well, thank god! we’ve been sitting here too long!”
“well, talk as much as you can, anyway. he has a passion for giving
“well, stand us some of your herb vodka, túshin,” it said.
“well, so that’s finished, my dear fellow! i am very glad to have
“well, she loves me and you like that.”
we’ll set off.”
“well, send for him... and how do you get on with that german?”
“well!...” said the old count, spreading out his arms and sinking
“well,” said she, “how’s my cossack?” (márya dmítrievna
“well?” returned the old man.
well remembered that seven afterwards. he laid down the seven of hearts,
“well, really, mamma! why should you? what is there to be surprised
“well, really, catiche! can’t you understand! you are so
“well, prince, so genoa and lucca are now just family estates of the
“well, prince?” asked kozlóvski.
well, only a little bruised just here,” he added, pointing with a
“well, of course, of course!”
“well, now you’ve done what you wanted,” put in nicholas—“said
“well, now we’ll arrange something quite simple and becoming,” she
“well, now to the health of handsome women!” said dólokhov, and
“well, now tell me about your exploits,” said he.
“well now, isn’t she a fool!” shouted the prince, pushing the book
“well, now, good-by!” he gave his son his hand to kiss, and embraced
“well now, gentlemen,” said bilíbin, “bolkónski is my guest in
“well, never mind; i only...”
well, never mind, here you are.”
“well, my dear?” said prince vasíli, taking her hand and bending it
“well, my dear fellow, tomorrow we are off at last,” said prince
“well, my dear fellow, so you still want to be an adjutant? i have
“well, my dear boy, i hear you’ve been educated abroad, not taught
“well, my dear?” asked the countess.
“well, my boy, you’ll get along wherever you go—foot or
“well, mon cher,” said the vicomte, having seated himself beside
“well, michael mítrich, sir?” he said, addressing one of the
“well, michael ivánovich, our bonaparte will be having a bad time
“well, maybe!” said prince andrew. “go, másha; i’ll come
“we’ll manage very well without a doctor.”
“we’ll make you dance as we did under suvórov...,” * said
“well, madam,” he began, stooping over the book close to his
“well, little countess? what a sauté of game au madère we are to
well-lit anteroom where they took off their cloaks without the aid of
“well, let’s go and sing ‘the brook.’”
“well, lëlya?” he asked, turning instantly to his daughter and
well known, so much appreciated by everyone. the other day at the
“well, i will read them, then!” bagratión seemed to say, and,
“well, i will leave you in your little corner,” came anna
well i will give you my hand to kiss. not till then!” she said. and
“well, it seems that no one has noticed,” thought rostóv. and this
“well, it’s as you like,” said the staff captain. “and what has
“well, i think it is. the bigwigs here think so too, but they
“well, i suppose it is time we were at table?” said márya
“well, is it true that it’s peace and capitulation?” asked
“well, i have got all i need into packs for two horses,” said
“well, if you do, so much the better, and you can go back to her!”
“well, i don’t know. it’s awkward and would make me ashamed.”
“well, i don’t know about that, but i am uncomfortable with him. and
“well, i did not expect you, i am very glad,” said prince andrew.
“well, i am taking it off,” replied lavrúshka’s voice.
“well, how is he?”
“well, how d’you do, my dear fellow?” said dolgorúkov, who was
“well! how d’ye do? how d’ye do? glad to see you!”
“well? how do you feel?” he asked.
“well, how are you going to get out of that?” he remarked.
“well, he’s really a good fellow, one can serve under him,” said
“well!” he said, turning to his wife.
“well?” he asked.
“well, have you sent gabriel for some wine? all right let’s have
“well, have you finished?” said he to kozlóvski.
“well, have it so, and you talked a lot of nonsense to him and must
“well? has he been degraded into a field marshal, or into a soldier?
“well—had a good time?” said the old count, smiling gaily and
“well, good-by, prince,” said he to bagratión. “my blessing, and
“well, go and see,” he said, after a pause.
“well, fwiend? so you’ve smelt powdah!” shouted váska denísov
well for you,” said natásha, with a responsive smile. “you should
we’ll fire off some cannon! but this sort of thing seems done
well enough to be sure that this will not turn your head, but it imposes
well educated and clever. this is all that his foreign education has
“well, do you think i shall prevent her, that i can’t part from
“well done, lads!” said prince bagratión.
“well done!... fine fellow!... there’s a bet for you!... devil take
well-brushed clothes. there was a masculine odor and a smell of tobacco.
“well begin!” said dólokhov.
“well, au revoir! good-by! you hear her?”
“well, au revoir, bolkónski! au revoir, prince! come back early to
“well, as you see. so far everything’s all right, but i confess i
well, as all the connoisseurs who heard her said: “it is not trained,
well, are you off to the front?”
“well, aren’t you ashamed of yourself, captain túshin?” he
“well, and you, young man,” said he. “how do you feel, mon
“well, and you? what are your plans?”
“well, and to whom did you apply about bóry?” asked the countess.
“well and then?” asked the other voice. “if before that you are
“well, and so he never got farther than: ‘sergéy kuzmích’?”
“well, and is that all?” he asked.
well and, in particular, drinks well. “so do come and dine with us!”
well!” and he turned to go.
“well, and are you still true to borís?” he continued.
“well, all the same, you must refuse him.”
“well, all right, all right.”
“well, all i can make out is that everything is abominable,
well.”
well.”
welfare of his soul is at stake. ah, it is awful: the duties of a
we let our feeble human minds roam, the better we shall please god, who
welcome for the approaching chief.
we know where we are. and what do you think of the boulogne expedition?
we knew you’d say so. but it won’t do, because you see, if you say
weight they were carrying were too much for them.
weight.
“we here in moscow are more occupied with dinner parties and scandal
we hear is true, it is dreadful. how little we dreamed of such a thing
“we have orders to drive you off here, and we shall drive you off,”
we have fully concentrated forces of nearly seventy thousand men with
we had not religion to console us life would be very sad. why do you
“we had better separate,” he muttered in a broken voice.
weep without knowing why—rode behind on his artillery nag. though
weeks, and months of his life passed in as great a rush and were as much
“we drove them back!” said borís with animation, growing talkative.
‘we don’t love people so much for the good they have done us, as
“we don’t interfere with you and berg.”
wednesday’s meeting of the imperial council, at which sergéy kuzmích
we could not think how to address the reply! if not as ‘consul’
“we can’t have less—yes, three... the mayonnaise, that’s one,”
we can know is that we know nothing. and that’s the height of human
we begin a very original and interesting series of maneuvers. our aim is
weather. “the weather is beautiful, princess; and besides, in moscow
weather, and countess apráksina. now and then they glanced at one
weary of it and it was not at all what he wanted. he turned away and
weary, making his way past the baggage wagons, rode in search of the
weary faces, were sitting at the table eating and drinking.
weary, and distracted air, though at the same time he was haughty and
wearing the cross of st. george, awarded to soldiers for bravery in
wearing scarves and all their decorations, not only the elegant, pomaded
wearing long dresses for the first time. with scarcely any exceptions
weariness of tone, “it is almost impossible for me to do what you
weariness and assurance, as if he were adding every time: “you know
“we are to spend the night in znaim.”
“we are such friends, such friends! all that ruler business was just
“we are not fighting pour le roi de prusse, but for right principles.
“we are enjoying ourselves! vasíli dmítrich is staying a day longer
weapon) and looked now at the superior officers and now back at the men
“weally! and i’ve been losing, bwother. i lost yesterday like a
“we all have our weaknesses,” said kutúzov smiling and walking away
weakness—the one to which he had confessed when admitted to the
weak human understanding cannot grasp, it seems to me rather useless to
way, with berg who was already in command of a company. berg, who had
way through the crowd, went out of the drawing room and reappeared a
way,” said an officer.
way of these men, and he would have got clear had they continued at the
way!... let us pass!... stop there, you devil with the cart! i’ll hack
way in which he danced the mazurka, nicholas ran up to natásha:
way,” he added in russian—but pronouncing the word with a french
way, dear boy! make way, make way!” pushed through the crowd more
way, and, blushing far more than borís, began to speak with a feeling
way and attaching him to himself! what if he gave me a place near him?
waving it above his head cried:
waters of the distant danube shone. and fairer still were the faraway
water cart, painted green, stood in a shed; the paths were straight,
water.
watchword—shaft, olmütz. what a nuisance that our squadron will be in
watch the change in the tone and manners of the mammas burdened by
“watching over his interests” meant, but he decided that all these
watching and it creaked very slightly as she disappeared behind it.
watchful eye on the young man who so alarmed her, noticed that he was
watched him smilingly, and he rode off by the winding path down the
watched him. she smiled, hid her face in her handkerchief, and remained
watched her cousin who was going to join the army, with such passionate
was writing. “i’ll do it.”
was warm blood under his arm. “no, i am wounded and the horse is
was very valuable. officers who approached him with disturbed
was trying to fit music:
was true. no one had taken any notice, for everyone knew the sensation
was true and appropriate, yet, strange to say, everyone—the visitors
was too far separated from our right flank and the cavalry were all
was told that the prince had gone to the nursery.
was thinking of. yes, na-tásha, sabretache, oh, yes, yes! that’s
was there on the hilltop, and kept constantly looking at the patches
was the name his fancy gave to the farthest gun of the battery, which
was the little princess, these tears, the cause of which she did not
was the emperors’ suites. the emperors rode up to the flank, and the
was the count at last handed a letter addressed in his son’s
“was that grapeshot?” he asked denísov.
was tall and fair, and his calm and handsome face had regular, delicate
was talking came up to listen. berg, oblivious of irony or indifference,
was talked of. for the rostóv family the whole interest of these
was taken up with dinners and balls and was spent chiefly at prince
was struck by the change in him. his words were kindly and there was a
was stricter.”
was standing beside the princess, and they were both speaking in excited
was spitting blood. a bullet had evidently hit him in the throat or
was something black, now little lights seemed to glimmer where the enemy
was so close to him that his shortsighted eyes could not but perceive
was sitting. the curtains were drawn, and a single candle was burning on
was sitting beside him, by the hand. rostóv was struck by the
was sitting at the head of the table. on either side of her sat the
was sitting at a small table, chattering with másha, her maid. she grew
was silent with his steward, the gardener, and the architect, and though
was silenced at once. they looked at the beautiful, large, thoughtful
was serving, and a misunderstanding arose. the two commanders were much
was saying.
was said.
was repeatedly summoned to see him. at headquarters and among the troops
was rather out of place in this brilliant society, the whole company had
was rapidly and excitedly talking to a french grenadier. “hark to him
was perfectly true. he was afraid of getting some other officer into
was particularly pleasant at that moment. they had reached the battery
was pale, his blue eyes looked impudently into the commander’s face,
was out of the question, “i am in love with your brother once for all
was only redder than usual. with his shaggy head thrown back like birds
was on duty and that he should go through the door on the left into the
was often on dólokhov’s face when looking at him. “yes, he is a
“wasn’t it fine when those germans gave us lifts! you just sit still
“wasn’t i telling you to fire the bridge, when inflammable material
wasn’t it?”
was. now he excused himself for having been taken prisoner and now,
was not in love with anyone in particular, but with everyone. whatever
was nothing. so why should i not stay at his house? then i played cards
was not behaving very well in this matter. “youth, frivolity... well,
was “not a whit worse than you or i.” at dinner the prince usually
was necessary for him to go to the count at all, still less why he had
was napoleon—his hero—but at that moment napoleon seemed to him
was more important than verses, and bagratión, again preceding all the
was merely a man of the world who had got on and to whom getting on had
was mentioned and, pointing to his forehead, remarked:
was lying asleep on the ottoman with an open book in his hand.
was lost. no one whom rostóv asked could tell him where the emperor
was laughing at something, mingled in a merry sound, like the chirping
was large and of an old pattern. the french swarming round their guns
“was kutúzov well? when had he left krems?” and so on. the emperor
was keeping the bank. rostóv had not seen him since his proposal and
was in the way and was the only one who did not notice the fact. most of
was in the right so i kept silent; was not that best, count?... ‘hey,
was in raptures about him, when he had just returned from abroad, and
was in his place, waiting.
was in a white uniform rode a black one. these were the two emperors
was impossible to see it clearly with the naked eye. our right flank was
was impossible for cavalry to act among the bushes and broken ground,
was immediately surrounded by courtiers on all sides. everywhere he
was immediately killed. prince andrew again seized the standard and,
was holding fast to plait, would allow.
was heartily sick of them. in spite of this, or rather because of
was happy. “left... left... left...” he seemed to repeat to himself
was growing dusk. on the narrow augesd dam where for so many years the
was great on the bridge of arcola, and in the hospital at jaffa where he
was going home to vorónezh and rostóv persuaded him to travel with him
was fully described: prince murat et tout le tremblement... you see that
was fought.
was, for something could be descried. on the right the guards were
was forgetting. we must have another entrée. ah, goodness gracious!”
was for earthly love. the more she tried to hide this feeling from
was excellent. with the second course, a gigantic sterlet (at sight of
was evidently one, rostóv felt confused, blushed, and became silent.
was ecstatically conscious of his approach. he felt it not only from the
was dulled by imbecility and a constant expression of sullen
was downstairs.
was diverted by the desperate shrieks of the woman in the vehicle. an
was delighted with denísov’s skill, he was asked again and again as
was coming, and turning to her mother:
was charming... you are very kind... countess apráksina...” was heard
was charmant. even if anna pávlovna did not say so, he could see that
was bright, he had a good horse under him, and his heart was full of
was borís drubetskóy, who had just arrived as a special messenger from
was being held by the arms and his horse was being led behind him.
was being done was not his adjutant’s fault, and still not answering
was beginning, anna pávlovna gave one of her soirees. the “cream of
was baptized. the wet nurse supported the coverlet with her chin, while
was a young horse telyánin had sold to rostóv.)
was a unique chance to show his devotion to the emperor and he had not
was at home last, and, having assured himself that they had not, he
was a stroke of genius. prince auersperg feels his dignity at stake and
“was a political necessity, and it seems to me that napoleon
was always busy and always felt in a state of mild and cheerful
was also a yellow, wrinkled old man, without beard or mustache,
was already perfectly cured of his former faults and was ready for all
was all over; but he said in an indifferent tone:
was a great success. there were many pretty girls and the rostóv girls
was again nodding. “come, get on! you shall have three rubles for
was accustomed to understand him. he led him to the desk, raised the
was abroad; so pierre had not the opportunity to spend his nights as he
was about, went across the room to where pierre was standing and gave
was about twenty-five. like all infantry officers he wore no mustache,
was about to run on, thinking that the farther he went to the front
was about to expand her dresses into a balloon and sit down. they were
was about to cross the space between the barriers, when dólokhov cried:
was about to be decided. but prince andrew did not see how it ended. it
was.
wars,” he said.
warrior doing some kind of man’s work of his own, without help or
war or politics but related to high society, to certain women, and to
warm themselves, gathering round the fires throwing into the flames the
war has deprived me of one of the associations nearest my heart. i mean
war, even here amid fieldwork and the calm of nature—which townsfolk
wares, especially a pair of goatskin slippers. “i have hundreds of
wardrobe in which pierre noticed garments such as he had never seen
war came contradictory news, false as usual and therefore variously
war and peace
want to dance well. her enormous figure stood erect, her powerful arms
want to, but now i have no time.” besides, it seemed to him that the
want the money for? as if that money could add a hair’s breadth to
want that. and besides, what a notion that medicine ever cured anyone!
“wants to turn on the other side,” whispered the servant, and got up
wants to go to the war,” replied pierre, addressing the princess
wanted to sleep. the gay triumphant shouting of the enemy army had a
wanted to show him that his losses were an achievement that made her
wanted.
walls hung round with persian carpets. the part of the room behind the
wall. on this knoll there was a white patch that rostóv could not at
walk to meet him. his face with its long mustache was serious as always,
walked slowly without raising his pistol, looking intently with his
walked away from the fire.
wake up, váska!” he went on, turning to denísov, whose head
waken...” all rose and cried “hurrah!” bagratión also rose and
wait only two hours, when, come what might, he would let his excellency
“wait—just a word! when he has been transferred to the guards...”
“waiting, your majesty,” repeated kutúzov. (prince andrew noted
waiting to see what he would do. he stood a little while before the
waiting to hear whether he would say anything more. but kutúzov, with
waiting for the beat. only on horse back and in the mazurka was
waiting for—some important relation who has not yet arrived, or a dish
waiting for him to say a word and cross a certain line, and he knew that
waiting for a seven to turn up, gazed at dólokhov’s hands which held
“wait, i have not finished...” he said to prince andrew, seizing
“wait, haven’t you dropped it?” said rostóv, picking up the
waiter filled his glass he changed his mind and altered it to his usual
waited in expectation of an important order for an expensive funeral.
waited impatiently for prince andrew’s return from the commander in
waited for him to go on, but as he seemed quite decided to say no more
“wait!” cried dólokhov, hammering with the bottle on the window
“wait a moment, i’ll get my work.... now then, what are you
“wait a bit, i have something in view for you this evening.”
“wait a bit, here’s a letter for you,” said the old man suddenly,
“wait a bit, he is not drunk yet! a bottle here,” said anatole, and
“wait a bit and listen. it’s fine!” answered sídorov, who was
waistcoat. “it’s the sauté, most likely,” she added with a smile.
     wafting sweet music o’er the lea,
vyazmítinov, the new military governor general of petersburg, had
vulgarity of the expressions that were natural to her, though she had
vreatening russia and zat ze safety and dignity of ze empire as vell
“vous voyez le malheureux mack,” he uttered in a broken voice.
vous aime’?” he kept repeating to himself. and when he had said it
voulu, george dandin,’ that’s all we have to say about it!”
votre victoire n’est pas des plus victorieuses.” *
von bergs—have been knights!”
volume you have sent me and which has such success in moscow. yet since
“voilà l’agrément des camps, monsieur le prince,” * said the
voice, “you were pleased to send me to captain túshin’s battery. i
voice, with its incorrect breathing and labored transitions, was
voice which expressed joy for himself, severity for the regiment, and
voice trembled.) “i loved your father... and she will make you a good
voice. to fresh questions as to the firmness of his resolution pierre
voice. “there was no one else in the room except myself. so that if it
voices were but feebly heard amid the uproar and one saw by their faces
voice suddenly shrieked: “but if i hear that you have not behaved like
voices subsided, the footmen cleared away the broken glass and everybody
voices, and the army swayed and started in one enormous mass six miles
voices.
voice, popped her head in at the door.
voice, opening his door.
voice, obviously so elated by the sound of firing, by the prospect of
voice from heaven. how gladly would he have died at once for his tsar!
voice calling him by name.
voice, “but believe me, i so adore your daughter and all your family
voice, and lieutenant telyánin, a small officer of the same squadron,
voice.
voice.
vodka. the campfires crackled and the soldiers’ songs resounded
vodka—get on!” rostóv shouted, when the sleigh was only three
vodka a quarter of an hour before, he saw everywhere the same rapid
vocation is to be happy with another kind of happiness, the happiness
vladímirovich is my mother’s second cousin. he’s also my bóry’s
vladímirovich bezúkhov’s house. “my dear borís,” said the
vladímirovich bezúkhov. if he will not assist his godson—you know
vladímirovich bezúkhov, countess rostóva sat for a long time all
vladímir medal and ribbon? but now, even if they do get peppered, the
vividly imagined what awaited it and the part he would have to
visitors. there was the fact that only those came who wished to dance
visitors on his right. midway down the long table on one side sat the
visitor. “he is a son of márya ivánovna dólokhova, such a worthy
visitor. “and to think it is cyril vladímirovich bezúkhov’s son
visitor alluded to, though she had already heard about the cause of
visit mademoiselle george; that at her house he came upon bonaparte,
visiting all the places he meant to go to and where he had been invited,
visit his neglected estates at the same time and pick up his son anatole
visible through the smoke, make out moving masses of infantry and narrow
visible in the snow and a shovel had been left sticking in one of the
visible as if but a stone’s throw away, and the movements of the
vish to destroy my men for your pleasure!”
virtuous life of which he had been dreaming since he met joseph
virtuous future that seemed to him so easy. it seemed to him that he had
virtue was and could not recall it.
village. “very good!” said bagratión in reply to the officer’s
village. tell it to stop and await my orders.”
villages were in a state of the greatest poverty. he did not know that
village of pratzen. but neither they nor a single commanding officer
village!” he said angrily to a general who had ridden up. “don’t
village and had already been sent for.
“vile woman!” shouted the princess, darting unexpectedly at anna
vile, infamous paper, but i thought the thing was invalid.”
view they were right, as were those too who canonized him and died a
views by this french sentence. “c’est bien pour un garçon de rien
vienna. kutúzov with his transport had still to march for some days
“vienna considers the bases of the proposed treaty so unattainable
vienna by the austrian hofkriegsrath, the sole and almost unattainable
vienna as i told you. very well. next day, which was yesterday, those
victory which was conveyed, not only by the tales of those who had taken
victory, what effect would that have on the general course of events?
victory over buonaparte at eylau. in petersburg everyone is rejoicing,
victory or defeat, the glory of our russian arms is secure. except your
victory. his majesty will no doubt wish to see you, but not today. i
victory be in doubt, even for a moment, you will see your emperor
victory, and general bennigsen, hoping to receive from petersburg the
vicomte who was continuing his story.
vicomte continued, with the air of a man who, in a matter with which
vicomte and from the vicomte to their hostess. in the first moment of
vicious and unfortunate people whom he would assist by word and deed,
vessel and judge of its purity? only by the inner purification of myself
very wise, because you can take everything along with you—vodka and
“very well, very well...”
“very well, then, be so good as to wait,” said prince andrew to the
“very well,” said smolyanínov, and went on at once: “have you any
very well...”
very trying,” said prince andrew, apparently speaking lightly of their
very strictly to social distinctions and rarely admitted even important
“very silly,” said véra. “i am ashamed of you. secrets indeed!”
very serious talk.”
“very,” said pierre.
very pretty and sweet, and evidently deeply in love with him, but he was
very poor, but for my own part at any rate, for the very reason that
very muscular men, and on the night of the battle, having arrived
“very much,” said nicholas flushing, and with a stupid careless
very much! i have promised myself not to serve again in the active
“very lovely,” said prince andrew.
“very likely it would be splendid, but it will never come about....”
very likely be getting a letter from him that day. each time that these
“very interesting.”
very important personage, had been sent on a very important mission to
very important.”
“very good, very good,” said bagratión. “thank you, officer.”
“very good!” said the prince closing the door behind him, and
“very good!” said bagratión.
“very good,” answered nesvítski.
very glad to see him hanged, but i was sorry for my father—that again
very fine when he said that,” he remarked, repeating the words in
very fine!”
very fields where the french had now to be fought; the adjacent
very decent town. you and i will travel comfortably in my calèche.”
very clever but eccentric, and a bore. the poor girl is very unhappy.
very briefly and vaguely, that after brilliant engagements the russians
“very.”
verses in the bosom of her dress close to her bony little chest, ran
verses called “enchantress,” which he had composed, and to which he
véra with guilty, happy faces.
véra’s remark was correct, as her remarks always were, but, like
“véra,” she said to her eldest daughter who was evidently not a
venetian mirror in the wall, and in her trodden-down shoes briskly
“ve must vight to the last tr-r-op of our plood!” said the colonel,
velvety softness, which so mingled with her lack of art in singing that
vasíli, who had grown thinner and paler during the last few days,
vasíli went on, testily pushing away a little table without looking at
vasíli understood it as an expression of weariness.
vasíli to himself, with a sorrowful sigh, one morning, feeling that
vasíli to anna pávlovna.
vasíli to anna mikháylovna. “go and take something, my poor anna
vasíli’s tone of careless self-assurance that he felt he would be
vasíli’s son, hippolyte, had come with mortemart, whom he introduced.
vasíli’s son anatole, whom they wish to reform by marrying him to
vasíli’s house in the company of the stout princess, his wife, and
vasíli severely. “you don’t know what you are doing.”
vasíli played a very despicable part in this affair and that he
vasíli one day, closing his eyes and fingering pierre’s elbow,
vasíli, it is very sad for both. ah, my dear friend, our divine
vasíli, in the rare moments when he was at home, would take pierre’s
vasíli in the anteroom. all the affectation of interest she had assumed
vasíli. “i know something about that. don’t i? and you are still so
vasíli, his cheeks twitching more than ever.
vasíli had only acquired by imitating other parents.
“vasíli dmítrich, i thank you for the honor,” she said, with an
“vasíli dmítrich, i’m so sorry for you!... no, but you are so
“vasíli denísov, your son’s friend,” he said, introducing
vasíli, “but it is difficult for me to ask the emperor. i should
vasíli and the eldest princess. pierre concluded that this also was
vasíli and his son.
vasíli.
varying expression and the same prevalent appearance of goodhearted
varnish.
various kinds: a table, chairs, and a clavichord. one adjutant, nearest
various figures worked upon it, at the other was something resembling an
vanished. he waited for the first pause in the conversation, and then
vanished from his face.
vanguard, rewards were promised, and the men received a double ration of
valúev was confidentially telling that uvárov had been sent from
value this mystic power and glory that is floating here above me in this
valor carry disorder and confusion into the enemy’s ranks, but should
valet had set down the coffee things and left the room. pierre looked
valet can go in your carriage. ah! i was nearly forgetting,” he added.
vainly trying to master her agitation.
vacancies occur much more frequently in the foot guards. then just think
uvárov, who had arrived with him, paused at the doorway to allow him,
uttering a gentle, piteous, and childlike moan.
utter a sound. he feebly moved his leg and uttered a weak, sickly groan
us—we scuttle. he hardly crosses the river to our side before we
us. well, you want an argument,” he added, “come on then.”
usurper, the whole nation will certainly throw itself into the arms
usually so described.
usual in french, and as if after long self-restraint she wished to make
usual.
us. to the left the horizon bounded by the adjacent wood. prince
us talk business. have you been to the horse guards?”
us nice news of a victory by the archduke karl or ferdinand (one
ushering bolkónski in. “so you’re a messenger of victory, eh?
use of whatever interest he had to offer. he himself carefully scanned
used to show at catchplay, now and then turning his good-natured, pale,
used to say that a nap “after dinner was silver—before dinner,
used to like to spend them, or to open his mind by intimate talks with
used to be. don’t judge lise harshly,” she began. “she is so
used for dancing, but in which five beds now stood, and furniture of
us but within....”
us. but vienna is on the other side. no, the bridge has not yet been
us aides-de-camp and adjutants! but this is what we’ll do: i have
us?...” “ah! mary, you have got thinner?...” “and you have grown
urging of horses, and the swearing of soldiers, orderlies, and officers.
urged on his already weary horse to get quickly past these crowds, but
up, was hastily writing at a tub turned bottom upwards. kozlóvski’s
upwards, in the way affected by the emperor alexander, and, having
up to túshin.
up to the window of the first house, when a familiar voice called him by
up to their gallery, addressing the first violin:
up to the commander in chief, and presented arms.
up to the appearance of the pauvre mère; they understood that they had
up to the altar, placed his feet at right angles, and bade him lie down,
up tomorrow. but you will see everything for yourself when you get to
up to her.
up to denísov’s squadron and rode at a footpace not far from rostóv,
up the whole of her thin, sickly face and made it beautiful. her brother
up the steps to where the coffin stood, to give her the farewell kiss.
up their knapsacks with a jerk of their shoulders and pulling the straps
upper lip and her half-open mouth—seemed to be her own special and
up out of the mist.
up on the vast field. the whole army was extended in three lines: the
upon prince andrew, who was beside him. seeing him, kutúzov’s
upon him, passed splendidly, lifting his feet with a high and graceful
upon anyone, and it was clear that the kitten had settled down only to
upon and could not now be altered. “we start tomorrow and i’m giving
up like a fool!” he thought, looking irritably at her. “she is
up, invited him to his house in petersburg, and now... she has come here
up her sleeves still higher. pierre approached, looking at her in a
up her downy little lip. “all the pretty women in society will be
up from the sofa, seized borís under the elbow in his quick, clumsy
up from both sides. everyone crowded to the window, the englishman in
up for lost time.
up!” came the company commander’s voice in jaunty tones. the
up at all!”
up and turning away as if from a shameful aspersion. “it is not from
up and began watching the movements of our troops below, as plainly
up a glass and a pipe that were handed him.
up against him. he wrote “800 rubles” on a card, but while the
unwounded. the soldiers were ascending the hill breathing heavily, and
unwounded—it was they who were crushing, weighing down, and twisting
unwell today? eh? afraid of the ‘minister’ as that idiot alpátych
unwell, sat down under an apple tree and von toll remained beside him.
unusual than what he was seeing. a skull, a coffin, the gospel—it
unpleasant thing to a man’s face, to say what the other, whoever
unpleasant things to everyone and upset them. let’s go to the
unpleasantly excited expression.
unpleasant.
unnatural way, he stretched out his hand for alpátych to kiss, and then
unnatural smile. “i expect you have guessed that prince vasíli has
unmelted snow, or some white houses? he even thought something moved on
unmask his deceivers!” and in order to realize vividly his love
unmarried, and even the happier for it?” so thought prince bolkónski
unlucky at cards.’ your cousin is in love with you, i know.”
unlike the old one, he expected everything to be unusual, even more
unlicked bear! a perfectly absurd and stupid fellow, and a gambler too,
universe, and of the courage with which he should endure toils and
unintentionally, he poured too many drops into the glass. he threw the
uniforms, with smartly dressed bandsmen in front mounted on black, roan,
uniforms, mounted on black horses, trotting straight toward him and
uniforms and groups with horses, easily recognizable as artillery.
uniforms advanced toward the bridge at a run. smoke appeared again
uniform living waves of soldiers, shoulder straps, covered shakos,
uniformed austrian officer.
ungainly russian princesses, would fall in love with her and carry her
unfriendly now became gentle and affectionate. the angry eldest
unfortunate, a stranger, alone, helpless! and, oh god, how passionately
unfinished bit of nibbled sugar, and asked if anything more would be
unfastened cloak, wide breeches hanging down in creases, and a crumpled
unexpectedly to go into action. rostóv without hearing borís to the
unexpectedly through his mind.
unexpectedly kind and pleasant smile.
uneasily as if preparing to resent any slight that might be put upon the
“und vivat die ganze welt!” though neither the german cleaning his
under which she felt that she could not think, but would only be able to
under the table.
under the shirt sleeves, those hands which he loved and hated, held him
“under the lower pillow.”
understood without naming.
understood what was happening as little as he did.
understood the revolution and quelled it, and so for the general good,
understood that this woman might belong to him.
understood that she was being asked to entertain this young man, and
understood, that he could not answer him.
understood him. the old man got up and gave the letter to his son.
understood her and made up my mind what she really is. was i mistaken
understood all the difficulties of the russian army’s position, and
understand what was being read. he managed to follow only the last words
understand... what a soul he has!”
understand the self-abnegation of our emperor who wants nothing for
understand. that’s what i’m up to.”
understand. she kissed his rough curly black head. at this instant, they
understand it so differently. he collected all his strength, to stir and
understand it; i don’t in the least understand why men can’t live
understand it’!... and i ask you!”
understanding of his employer’s happiness.
understanding half of it, read only to forget, if but for a moment, what
understanding but not wishing to appear to do so. the princess as usual
understand how one can live with such ideas. i had such moments
understand how a man of his immense intellect can fail to see what is
understand him it was so much the worse for them—did not go up to the
understand him, but he did not speak it very well—“i bet fifty
understand, and the greatness of something incomprehensible but
understand and state the patient’s condition.
understand, agitated her. she said nothing but looked about uneasily as
understand?”
under one command, and in a like order.
under his weight alone. the men looked at him and pressed to the
under him; “turn this way!” he shouted to those with the gun. “it
under fire for the first time.
under an obligation, assuming an air of much greater importance than he
under an invisible cap—to see what went on in the world. she was
“und die ganze welt hoch!” *
unconsciously and quite forgetting her condition, prepared for the
unconscious little princess, he shook his head reprovingly and slammed
unconciousness and oblivion which in the opinion of napoleon’s doctor,
unchanging stonily severe expression; and, sitting down opposite the
unchanging smile.
unbroken and had all day beaten back an enemy force twice as numerous
un bâtard!”* she added, as if supposing that this translation of the
unappreciated bliss, long past. he could not conceive that a stupid
unaccustomed brightness, but he was looking not at his sister but over
unable to withstand it now, but he also felt that on what he said now
unable to realize where he was.
unable to overcome or conceal his groundless antipathy to the man.
unable to ask for himself, he became chary of using his influence. but
“ugh. the hussars will get it hot!” said nesvítski; “they are
“ugh! i don’t like that fellow,” he said, regardless of the
two younger ones were embroidering: both were rosy and pretty and they
two years, and he did not know how the rest, about 100,000 rubles, was
two, three... one... “oh mio crudele affetto.”... one, two, three...
two thousand rubles, and though he always disliked speaking of money
twot fo’ward!”
“two such charming children. and really you appreciate them less than
two seconds. whether or no the emperor understood what was going on in
two of the enemy’s shots had already flown across the bridge, where
two months had elapsed since the news of the battle of austerlitz and
“two, i think.”
two hours later prince andrew, stepping softly, went into his father’s
two hostile armies was all the more clearly felt.
two front teeth were missing that had been knocked out by the butt end
two friends, one of whom was a dashing hussar and the other a notorious
two footmen, the princess’ and his own, stood holding a shawl and
two cossacks.
two candles. on the table was a pile of gold and paper money, and he
two battalions of the sixth chasseurs in fine order. before they had
two alexanders—bekleshëv and narýshkin—which was a significant
two.”
two.
twitched its ears as the bayonets touched it, and snorted, spurting
twisted upwards, sat the ruddy milorádovich in a military pose, his
twinkled and looked out straight.
twenty men were gathered round a table at which dólokhov sat between
twelve men in garments like those he had already seen. some of them
túshin, who silent and smiling, shifting from one stockinged foot to
túshin turned round in dismay. it was the staff officer who had turned
túshin told them to give the man some water. then a cheerful soldier
túshin’s wattle shed was laid, with a bullet in his stomach, on
túshin smiling shyly in his uncomfortable position, evidently wishing
túshin’s large, kind, intelligent eyes were fixed with sympathy and
túshin’s guns had been intended to cannonade the valley, he was
túshin’s battery had been forgotten and only at the very end of the
túshin’s battery but had never reached it. interrupting one
túshin rose and, buttoning his greatcoat and pulling it straight,
túshin did not say that there were no covering troops, though that
túshin.
“turn this way!” he shouted, jumping over the ice which creaked
turn spindles at home!’?” said shinshín, puckering his brows and
turn now, but that he will do all he can to let his turn come as late as
turn into vexation and anger at the stupid arrangements and at the
turning to prince vasíli and answering his imploring look. “yes, or
turning to anatole, “come here, let us talk and get acquainted.”
turning the horse sharply, he again jumped the ditch, and deferentially
turning into the village already... they will have their buckwheat
turning his partner round to her seat, he executed the final pas,
turning for a moment to the front line, and slightly swinging his arms,
turning away from the girls, who at once assumed an air of inattention.
turned to zherkóv. the nervous irritation aroused by the appearance
turned toward the women, and while the vehicle was passing at foot pace
turned toward her brother, and through her tears the loving, warm,
turned to speak to his daughter, the beautiful hélène.
turned to his wife.
turned to her.
turned to anna mikháylovna, answering her query by a movement of the
turned their horses away. the accountant stopped, facing the cossack,
turned round. the officer evidently had complete control of his face,
turned out splendidly all the same,” he added, winking at véra.
turned from captain timókhin again flitted over his face. he turned
turned away and went down the side of the corridor.
turn away from the sight, shouting angrily at the men who, as is always
tumbler with tea for himself and one for the beardless old man to whom
tuft of plumes in his cocked hat worn on one side with its corners front
tuesday.
tucked up, without a coat, pale and with a trembling jaw, came out
tsar, who still remained in the same attitude of indecision.
tsar and the country? it is wartime. such a fine fellow must serve.
“try to serve well and show yourself worthy,” added he, addressing
try to do all i can for your happiness.”
trying to prove that the russians had surrendered and had fled all
trying to give an expressive intonation to his voice.
trying to get something out of the rich man?”
trying through the dowager empress márya fëdorovna to secure it for
trying” (pierre’s modesty made him correct himself) “to live for
trying only to be ahead of the others; but just at the bridge, not
trying not to lose a word of the speech which was incomprehensible to
trying in vain to find the answer to some question.
trusts to luck, one should make certain,’ and i want to try.”
“trust in his mercy!” and pointing out a small sofa for him to sit
trumpets of the first cavalry regiment played the general march. it
true, or might at least seem to be true had it not referred to his wife.
true gascon) and says: ‘i don’t recognize the world-famous austrian
“true enough,” answered nesvítski; “two smart fellows could have
truce and a capitulation, he detected a ruse and wrote the following
trowel, he told him to toil with it to cleanse his own heart from vice,
trowel, a rough stone and a squared stone, a pillar, three windows, and
trouvez là le mot pour rire,” * he said, as if strengthening his
trouble, but the mason told him that was not necessary and gave him
trouble, and silently fixed his eyes on bagratión as a schoolboy who
trot to escape from the poisoned atmosphere of these latrines.
troops were running onto the bridge, was about to fire, but lannes
troops were no longer moving, but stood with the butts of their muskets
troops were moving in the distance, and he listened to the sounds of
troops were ill-clad, exhausted, and had lost a third of their number
troops on the high ground above the bridge involuntarily asked himself
troops, he saw, near a kitchen garden with a ditch round it, two men
troops had already entered prussia and our second war with napoleon
troops below the hill and fell far short of the enemy, a little smoke
troops arriving from russia, he risked being forestalled on that road
   triumph, valiant russians, now!...
triumphantly secured the mop and still did not realize what awaited him,
triumphantly and gaily.
triumphant, cheerful face.
triumph.
triumph.
tripping rapidly across in her little shoes trimmed with bows, ran
trigger, as he had not before held a pistol in his hand—a fact that he
trifle to let a wagon go past. after he had gone, two soldiers rushed to
tried with his lips whether the child was still feverish. the soft
tried to pretend not to know; no one spoke of it, but apart from the
tried to conceal them.
triangles are equal; please note that the angle abc...”
trembling with emotion, solemnly holding up in both hands before her
trembled nervously; this was sufficient to cause his whole body to slip
treetops and bluish gorges. the turrets of a convent stood out beyond a
treated them with absent-minded contempt.
tread of the soldiers who were keeping step with him. he carried close
treading heavily he stepped down from the carriage just as if those two
traveling effects of prince andrew’s were in very good order: new,
traveler, having packed his things with his practiced hands, began
traveler, also detained for lack of horses.
transparently radiant with impulsive joy.
translators: louise and aylmer maude
transit gloria mundi.”
trampling through the deep snow, and muttering incoherent words:
trampled mud and gazed with that particular feeling of ill-will,
traditions of unlimited power, in time when they grow more irritable,
traces broke, and lungs were strained with shouting. the officers
to you. where are you traveling from?”
to you since dinner? hasn’t she?”
“to your barrier!” and pierre, grasping what was meant, stopped by
town knows?”
to which pierre did not agree. on the other hand, pierre demanded that
to what he must do and how he should answer, willarski only replied that
to what he dreaded more than anything in the world—to ridicule; but
to weyrother sat count langeron who, with a subtle smile that never left
to. weyrother had been twice that evening to the enemy’s picket
to warn me of the humor my father is in. i do not allow myself to judge
toward those pratzen heights which were being more and more denuded by
toward the vanguard. before he came up with the hussars, several
toward the sofa she had indicated. as soon as anna mikháylovna had
toward the end of 1806, when all the sad details of napoleon’s
toward him whom he may give me for husband.
toward him and said something.
toward evening he ceased moaning and became quite still. he did not know
toward evening dolgorúkov came back, went straight to the tsar, and
toward anna pávlovna, and anna pávlovna, with the same sad smile with
to walk up and down before it.
to us.”
to unload the muskets, explode the ammunition, and all return home as
     * to understand all is to forgive all.
touch, “you promised me!”
touch with it, and looked around bewildered and unable to grasp what was
touching thanks of deputations of serfs in their full-skirted blue
touching his horse and turning purple in the face. “vill you be so
touching his arm, but when he saw pierre’s beaming face he gave him an
touching bonaparte’s.
touched pierre: he looked at hélène and she too seemed disconcerted,
touched him was sent flying.
to twitch. the twitching increased, the handsome mouth was drawn to one
to túshin’s battery had been moved away in the middle of the action
to turn the count’s heavy body toward the wall.
to turn away when the old man, opening his eyes, fixed his steady and
“to try his luck or the certainty?” rostóv asked himself.
to time she smoothed the folds of her dress, and whenever the story
to those who knew the indubitable truth.) he forgot what the seventh
to this occurrence than to the rest of what went on, having made up his
to this chit of a girl, natásha, who not so long ago was playing with
to think of the interview with his dying father which awaited him. he
to think of the impression he makes on others, but is occupied with
to the window.
to the visitor she added: “she is my youngest girl.”
to the views of the old generals kutúzov and prince schwartzenberg, it
to the vienna-znaim road. bagratión was to make this march without
to the unknown place where he was going, many more of our men were going
to the tsar or to kutúzov, even if they were alive and unwounded?
to the rules of his art, as he collected the tickets from all his
“to the right from the corridor, euer hochgeboren! there you will find
to the review, reaching the field at olmütz by ten o’clock.
to the removal of the guns.
to the ranks,” said the captain softly.
to the ranks along which shots crackled now here and now there, drowning
to the prince that if these battalions went away, the guns would remain
to the princess.
to the prince and smiling amiably at him as if to show that political
to the palace, however, an official came running out to meet him, and
to the old conditions of life, nicholas found it very pleasant to be
to then been in regular order and silent began to sway and stretch and
to them are the parts of the mechanism which the impulse has not yet
to the maid, “bring the princess her gray dress, and you’ll see,
to the left down below in the mist, the musketry fire of unseen forces
to the last meeting between father and son, it was so touching that she
to their companies, the sergeants major began bustling (the greatcoats
to their chatter. anatole kept on refilling pierre’s glass while
to the imperial family as well as to all moscow and petersburg, and both
to the hussar beside him.
“to the health of our sovereign, the emperor!” he cried, and at the
“to the head of the french government... au chef du gouvernement
to the guards’ camp to find his old playmate. rostóv had not yet had
to the godmother, princess mary. prince andrew sat in another room,
to the general commanding that left flank with orders to retreat
to the front of the regiment and examined it from a distance.
to the frontier. our dear emperor has left petersburg and it is thought
to the french sword and pouch. “i have taken an officer prisoner. i
to the footman who was helping him on with his cloak, listened
to the first squadron?”
to the farther side of the bridge and stopped the infantry. beside the
to the end, without raising his eyes at the opening of the door and the
to the emperors with a salute. his whole appearance and manner were
to the emperor shocked rostóv. rostóv saw how the emperor’s rather
to the emperor francis; he remembered the minister of war, the polite
“to the emperor.”
to the elderly lady, even betraying some impatience, she gave him an
to the effect that the duc d’enghien had gone secretly to paris to
to the devil, i’m busy!” he shouted to lavrúshka, who went up to
to the back of the house, to the room of the eldest princess.
to the austrian emperor and smiled.
“to the army.”
to the accountant, “but he feels a pain in the pit of his stomach
to tell you. there is a war now against napoleon. if it were a war for
to tear open the veil of convention that separates a commander in chief
total of his losses on it, then he looked round for aid from the other
totally altered and unexpectedly rapturous and tender expression on
to take their leave.
to sympathize in any way.
to subscribe all he had, but fearing that it might look like pride
to stop and fire the bridge.”
to stimulate his emotions he looked around. “god, death, love, the
to state his views plainly to the emperor? is it possible that on
to start her gambols again and display her kittenish nature.
to sob aloud.
to snatch it from one another. the expression on all their faces
to snatch from the other a boot they were both holding on to.
to slip in over there.”
to show the austrian general the wretched state in which the troops
to show that they are not at all impatient for their food. the host and
to show her fear of anna pávlovna. she looked at her niece, as if
to shout: “blackguards!... throw the snow back on the road!” did not
to settle here altogether next year....”
to set the serfs to work. say that everything out of the hothouses must
to seize hold of dólokhov’s shirt.
to say “tomorrow” and keep up a dignified tone was not difficult,
to say more in the presence of a stranger.
to say and as if she were saying it to someone else, with whom joking
to say, all that could be got out of them.
to say: “ah, what have you done to me, and why?” and at the sight
torzhók post station, either there were no horses or the postmaster
torzhók embroidery came into the room offering their services.
to run out to her, and remained in her hiding place, watching—as
to rostóv when the animal was handed over to the hussar.
to rostóv’s face, and his sobs were audible.
to rostóv and involuntarily riveted his attention, made a gesture of
to right and left of him soldiers continually groaned and dropped. but
to retreat along the road from krems to olmütz, to unite with the
to restrain his laughter.
to rest after their hard marches.
to remain so for a hundred years; but the moment comes when the lever
to remain for a few weeks longer in the house she so loved and where
to recollect something. prince andrew stepped forward from among the
to read and write by the deacon, like your father and me. now tell me,
to raise... happens to everybody! yes, who has not done it?”
to provide himself with some books for the campaign, and had spent some
“to prince vasíli. he was so kind. he at once agreed to everything,
to prince murat,
to pretend to the steward that he was attending to it. the steward
to present the regiment in parade order, on the principle that it is
to please you...” said prince andrew. but immediately, noticing
to pierre. he spoke in french. “i only know two very real evils in
to pierre he said nothing, merely giving his arm a sympathetic squeeze
topic of the day: the illness of the wealthy and celebrated beau of
topic—making fun of the military men of the day, and more particularly
to petersburg, look round, and choose your profession. i will agree to
to pass the time.”
too seemed strange; at one moment they looked impudently sly and at the
to one side he gracefully held a gold lorgnette to his eyes and looked
to one another, and the old servant who was holding the count’s hand
too, might have their own interests. but all he said was so prettily
tools laid ready to hand and shavings scattered around—all indicated
to olmütz, dined there, drank a bottle of wine, and then set off alone
took up her work.
took to be the enemy. shots could be heard, but some way off.
took it...” he whispered just above telyánin’s ear.
took him by the shoulder, led him to the window, and began to talk to
took her sister-in-law’s arm and drew her into another room.
took her hand and begged her forgiveness, without knowing what for.
took a horse and a cossack from a cossack commander, and hungry and
to offer their services. most of those present were elderly, respected
too.
to notice him, and that his whole aim now was to test the cadet’s
tonight to my friends—come to the english hotel.
“tonight, not later,” said he in a low voice, and he moved away
tone. “what has been decided? they have decided that buonaparte has
tones.
tone of voice. “come here, my friend...” and she ominously tucked
tone of entreaty and reproach that a carpenter uses to a gentleman who
tone and manner, here in moscow to anna mikháylovna whom he had placed
to my sister today. i will introduce you to her. but of course you know
        to my native land...”
to my bivouac; let my doctor, larrey, examine their wounds. au revoir,
tomowwow,” muttered denísov.
to move from right to left as if drawn by an invisible hand, and the
“tomorrow very likely i may be sent with some message to the
“tomorrow,” replied rostóv and left the room.
“tomorrow our squadron is to be in reserve. may i ask to be attached
tomorrow,” or, “be in to dinner or i shall not see you,” or, “i
tomorrow! only let me tell you, i want to know my son-in-law better. you
tomorrow... in the evening. you must come.... come!”
tomorrow.”
to milorádovich who was near him.
to me all about it, and i will help you in everything.” pierre had
to me after the review and we will do what is possible.”
tomb of the little princess, and in this chapel was a marble monument
to make scenes. this last consideration moved him.
to make reflections or think aloud in her company, and she had always
to make out the pattern.
to look under the uniforms he would have found on every man a clean
to live for myself avoiding those two evils is my whole philosophy
to leave that seclusion where they three were shut off from all the
told you it would not be enough. how much?”
told you, but you would not believe it,” she said triumphantly. “he
told them all that.
told the count such vile, disgraceful things about us, especially about
told him what he had seen.
told him to expect.
told him the whole field could be seen. here he dismounted, and stopped
told him that he should try to do nothing to stain the whiteness of that
told him, and said, “very good!” in a tone that seemed to imply that
to kutúzov’s staff despite all anna mikháylovna’s endeavors and
to know what is right and what is wrong. men always did and always will
to know?” she asked sternly.
to know as plain monsieur pierre, has become count bezúkhov and the
to join some swedish forces at stralsund; how two hundred and twenty
to it were his inertia and a wrinkle on his brow indicating prolonged
to irresistible, youthful, childish drowsiness. “but what was i
to inquiries as to where the prince lived, pointed out a small newly
to indicate that he was about to say something witty. “buonaparte?”
    * to indicate he did not want more tea.
to imbibe,” he said. “can i receive that pure liquid into an impure
to hope from him—especially as he did not know how, and did not
to his study with the wet nurse and little prince nicholas (as his
to his people in germany; and he felt greatly offended when the butler
to his leg a narrow unsheathed sword (small, curved, and not like a real
to his horse’s mane and pulled up beside the hussar. he was succumbing
to his estates and quite recovered the philanthropic mood in which
to his beautiful sister, but yet more by the fact that in spite of
to his adjutant he ordered him to bring down the two battalions of the
to him. we search, but none are to be found. the field marshal grows
to him straight out. let people think what they will of me, it’s
to him senseless, he understood and was not surprised at it.
to himself, for in him alone is truth and peace,” said she in a voice
to himself, but which formed the whole interest of his life,
to him: “i hear you are refitting your petersburg house?”
to him. he could not tell them simply that everyone went at a trot and
to him fell against the rails with a groan. rostóv ran up to him with
to him by the officers, and, like a man desperately insisting on having
to him. availing himself of his friendly relations with pierre as a boon
to him, as you so well know how to be.”
to him and disputed with one another who should bring him his tea,
to him about politics. prince andrew and the others gathered round these
to her shortsighted eyes. turning from princess mary he went up and
to herself: “no, i must be mistaken, he must be feeling happy, just as
to hers. a woman came from the bedroom with a frightened face and became
to her? i am so grateful to you that i would willingly sacrifice
to her but to the movements of mademoiselle bourienne’s little
to her, and now that anatole had appeared it just grouped itself around
to her and kissed her warmly. anatole went up to kiss the little
to her.”
to her.
to help at any point where the conversation might happen to flag. as
to hear the voices of well-known men. the largest circles formed round
to hear the details.”
to have any children by me.”
to grunth to find prince bagratión. he heard the cannonade behind him
to greet the young man.
to go by the back stairs, yet judging by anna mikháylovna’s air
to give you the love you do not feel, and your prayer would have been
to give in money and work all that other people’s serfs gave—that is
to give her friend the pleasure of dandling the little angel—as she
to get more money from the traveler.
to get himself killed. tell me what this wretched war is for?” she
together, thundered on the right and in the center, while the capotes
together. the german, pahlen, has been sent to new york in america, to
together as they approached it as if passing through a funnel. at last
together? and there! bezúkhov got off scotfree, while fédya had to
together, and made some steps on the very tips of her toes.
together.”
to fire the bridge, and now someone has gone and blundered; they are all
to fire and sword. the inhabitants are totally ruined, the hospitals
to fight a battle ‘on his own hand’ as the germans say. he does so.
   to feel that in this world there’s one
to fathom what he has been pleased to conceal from us, the sooner will
to express our sincere views on that subject, and can only say to the
to execute an order. the officer on duty, a handsome, elegantly dressed
to everyone. pierre was so used to that smile, and it had so little
toes toward the general. the captain’s face showed the uneasiness of
     * to err is human.
to enter the brotherhood of freemasons under my sponsorship?”
to enter into conversation with this old man, but, submitting to him
to each new arrival anna pávlovna said, “you have not yet seen my
to each couple of acres. the wounded crept together in twos and threes
to drive straight home. but the nearer he drew to the house the more he
to dress in here; and that andrew had quite changed, and that kitty
to do with sergéy kuzmích—a smile of bashfulness at their own
to do what was for him the most difficult thing in life—to say an
to do it that it seemed to him as if it had really happened. perhaps
to do it?”—“because you married her,” answered an inner voice.
to do but dwink. if we could only get to fighting soon. hullo, who’s
to distraction! one learns many things then,” she added with a certain
to dinner. i suppose he won’t go?” she continued, turning to the
to demonstrate the defects of the latter and the merits of his own plan,
“today when i remembered that all these delightful associations
today?” was his first thought. “and i did not know this suffering
today was a great day for him—the anniversary of his coronation.
today or tomorrow—at any rate, in an instant as compared with
today. he has been here on leave and is taking nicholas back with him.
today for the emperor.” dolgorúkov smiled significantly.
today, and that his excellency was not receiving anyone.
to cruel with his subordinates, and went into everything down to the
to cross the ditch on foot. the emperor, wishing to rest and feeling
to credit it, bent his head, and told túshin that he could go. prince
to count t., prince v., and others. then he bursts into one of his wild
to control herself any longer, she jumped up and rushed from the room as
to control her joy which expressed itself by laughter.
to continue his military service, and when the war recommenced
“to combat the evil which sways the world...” pierre repeated, and a
to cheer the men but merely carried out the orders), yet the troops
to change his former way of life, but his strength failed him. he walked
to build a new chantry to the church at their own expense in honor
to bore him so much as that of his pretty wife. he turned away from
to blame all round. well, what else do you want?...”
to be talking to a staff officer of such importance. “it’s a lovely
“to be sure, your excellency,” replied the architect.
to be so sent meant not only a reward but an important step toward
to be silent. but after a while, just as a jury comes out of its room,
to be severe, found nothing to say; the others did not venture to
to be reserved because in the depth of my soul i feel too near to him
“to be quite frank, mary, i expect father’s character sometimes
to be parted from her husband and be left alone in the country, in her
to be opened. everywhere he saw the stewards’ accounts, according to
to be his old schoolroom, and looking into natásha’s wildly bright
to be heard.
to behave here as you did in petersburg, you will end very badly; that
to be grew stronger, and he meekly followed anna mikháylovna who was
to bear the looks turned upon her, ran away into the dancing hall,
to be all right,” pierre concluded, and followed anna mikháylovna.
to balance himself. one of the footmen who had stooped to pick up some
to bagratión which the old countess at anna mikháylovna’s advice had
to a tune in which the weary musicians blundered, and while tired
to attend to the business himself and so he disliked it and only tried
to attain it quickly. hence we have a secondary aim, that of preparing
to a third; and the vicomte was served up to the company in the choicest
toast, the count took out his handkerchief and, covering his face, wept
to another. “how evidently he belongs to the best society,” said she
to all the club members and to all the club guests, and finally to
to agree to the truce but also to offer terms of capitulation, and
to a footman dressed in knee breeches, shoes, and a swallow-tail coat,
to adopt a jocular tone. but before he had finished he felt that his
to accept their services. he took the glove in silence from the
to above the knee. pierre hurriedly began taking off his right boot also
to abandon the road connecting him with the troops arriving from russia,
title: war and peace
“tit! i say, tit!” said the groom.
tiresome,” said natásha in a mortified voice that trembled slightly.
tired of being run after by women, his vanity was flattered by the
tiptoe to the countess’ door and paused.
tipsy rage when a man does not know what he is saying. he saw that his
tiny limbs she had felt twenty years ago within her, that son about whom
tint in her complexion and especially in the color of her slender but
timókhin to the subaltern beside him.
timókhin, armed only with a sword, had rushed at the enemy with such
timidly to the corner where denísov sat. she saw that everybody was
timidly from behind the backs of the generals. as he stepped past the
time to time he went out to ask: “hasn’t she come yet?” they
time to get his uniform. he had on a shabby cadet jacket, decorated with
time till they came to moscow had not left them for a day.
time that evening, vainly expecting someone, now smiling at someone, now
times unexpectedly interrupted. once he stopped it by shouting: “the
times, the more impassioned he became in these moments of almost morbid
times repeated—of a sonata by dussek.
time since his return that they had talked alone and about their love.
times before: how the late princess had given birth to princess mary
time. no, i’ll tell you now. you know sónya’s my dearest friend.
time, muttering to herself.
time in the shop.
time for that sort of thing and a young man fears to bind himself and
time could not admit the idea of his hero being disgraced.
time, anna mikháylovna sent someone to call her son, and went into the
time.
time!”
till you can say to yourself that you have done all you are capable of,
    * till tomorrow, my dear fellow.
till the tsar reached it, each regiment in its silence and immobility
till then. their powers of reasoning, feeling, and observing immediately
till then, had listened with an amused smile to their conversation and
till the general asked him to restore it. all his absent-mindedness and
till ten o’clock.
till she was twenty, and arranged her life so that her whole time was
till now. but where am i?”
till midday on the nineteenth, the activity—the eager talk, running to
till may, and asked him to be more economical this time. nicholas had
till its coat shone like satin and every hair of its wetted mane lay
till he began sincerely to believe in his own exceptional kindness and
tíkhon went and told the prince.
tíkhon to ask mary bogdánovna what news.—“say only that ‘the
tíkhon, like all good valets, instinctively knew the direction of his
tíkhon knew that neither the son’s arrival nor any other unusual
tíkhon knew his master’s habit of sometimes thinking aloud, and
tíkhon did not hear the slightest sound from the study after that.
tíkhon, at her husband, and at the footman who accompanied them.
tidiness and good management. some domestic serfs pierre met, in reply
thyself whether thou art content with thyself. what hast thou attained
thumping the table; “and ve must tie for our emperor, and zen all vill
thumping the table.
thumb to the room where telyánin was sitting, he frowned and gave a
thud of the enemy’s cannon balls, from the flushed and perspiring
thrown the reins of the snaffle bridle over the horse’s head. it was
throwing down his chisel. (the wheel continued to revolve by its own
through the town of enns on both sides of the bridge.
through the smoke. he was pressing one hand to his left side, while
through the naïve and intelligent count and played with him as with
through the door. prince andrew got up, went to the door, and tried to
through the door on tiptoe. he could not walk well on tiptoe and his
through the door came the sounds of kutúzov’s voice, excited and
through the door came the regular hum of a lathe. the princess timidly
through the door.
through the conservatories, the serfs’ quarters, and the outbuildings,
through the closed doors came the sound of difficult passages—twenty
through that door was heard a noise of things being moved about, and
throughout the whole cavalry division as váska denísov. cadet rostóv,
through his lorgnette, suddenly turned completely round toward the
through him, and again laughed his frigid laugh.
through, and realized that he could not stop halfway. he was aghast
throttle if they stood in my way. i have an adored, a priceless mother,
three parts of that army were sharply distinguished: kutúzov’s
three months ago, draw fresh moral strength from your look, so gentle,
“three,” he went quickly forward, missing the trodden path and
three days later the little princess was buried, and prince andrew went
three beats: “oh mio crudele affetto.”... one, two, three... one,
“three and a half miles, your majesty.”
threatened by the french) but at brünn. despite his apparently delicate
thrashing for letting a private traveler have the courier horses.
thousands such as i in russia.’
thousand-ruble horses, only eighteen were left after the charge.
thousand men each of whom knew his place and his duty, had every button
thousand men breathlessly gazing at him and the regimental commander did
thousand austrians, with a hundred thousand russians, were to operate in
“thou hatest it. then change it, purify thyself; and as thou art
thou hast lost.”
though without knowing its cause—was such as to remind one still more
though what she said was quite just, perhaps for that very reason no one
though what happened was due to chance and was independent of the
thought turned to her sister-in-law with a tender glance at her figure.
thought. the minister drew the remaining papers together, arranged them
thought that he, an exemplary officer of many years’ service who
thought that came into his mind was that today he had to be presented
thoughts rather than the trend of the conversation—“and that’s a
thoughts he has dreamed of for nights, but looks around for help or a
thought, “seriously, i have long been thinking of it.... leading such
thoughts, and memories suddenly arose within him that he could not fall
thoughts.
thought rostóv. “i should die of happiness!”
thought rostóv. he knew what a shock he would inflict on his father and
thought rostóv. at that moment alexander turned his head and rostóv
thought—referring to the little princess who was not in the dining
thought prince andrew, and striking his horse he rode up to kutúzov.
thought pierre. “but this man knows the truth and, if he wished to,
thought pierre, “and how little attention we pay to it!”
thought of such a thing, it is only the cabinet that says it.”
thought of sónya, during this stay in moscow, he said to himself,
thought of his friend and how much he expected of him in the future.
thought of everything, considered everything, and did everything the
thought independent of her sister-in-law’s words. in the midst of a
thought, “i must remain free.”
thought: “i am going to save the army.”
thought he, “i shall be sent with a brigade or division, and there,
thought he heard a strange noise through the door. he was seized with
thought, he called tíkhon and began to undress.
though the big hospitals and the houses in krems converted into military
thought, as he listened to voices in kutúzov’s courtyard. the voices
thought. and suddenly, at this thought of death, a whole series of most
thought and heard of her might be false. and he again saw her not as the
though shy, went on carefully executing her steps. denísov did not
though she were grown up, was evidently very proud of this but at the
though politeness prevented his showing impatience, left the old woman
though of this prince andrew said nothing to his sister, was that in the
though no words had passed between anatole and mademoiselle bourienne,
though not much time had passed since prince andrew had left russia, he
though none of the column commanders rode up to the ranks or talked to
though mademoiselle bourienne had been so unsuccessful in her choice
though he wrote in french and used french jests and french idioms,
though he smiled delightedly. he ran up to them.
though he may perhaps outlive us all, as i sincerely hope he will...”
though five minutes before, prince andrew had been able to say a few
though embracing her.
though all were in a conspiracy of silence. the men who set the tone
thou art wise because thou couldst utter those blasphemous words,” he
those women—mostly mothers—who, having once made up their minds,
those who were in the dimly lit reception room spoke in nervous
those who were holding him under the armpits, and of his gray, curly,
those who were guiding him.
those who had been campaigning under kutúzov. the two emperors,
“those were extremes, no doubt, but they are not what is most
those richer and more powerful than himself and he had rare skill in
those recently arrived from russia, both guards and regiments of the
those on foot, collapsed in a great mass, and some forty men who were on
those of higher ranks in the order. 3. morality. 4. love of mankind. 5.
those kurágins and leading that sort of life. it suits you so
those hofs-kriegs-wurst-raths are! suvórov couldn’t manage them so
those first steps. both had changed greatly since they last met and both
those brilliant aged eyes grown old in this conviction, or the calm
this young jacobin was not so terrible as his words suggested. all were
“this won’t do, princess; it won’t do,” said he, when princess
this was true. the architect had told him that it was necessary, and
this was the count’s favorite dance, which he had danced in his youth.
this was quite true, but the count, the countess, and natásha looked
this was particularly noticeable on nesvítski’s usually laughing
this was not so but that on the contrary the french had run away. he
this—want glory, want to be known to men, want to be loved by them, it
this victory to the austrian court, now no longer at vienna (which was
this very sentence about countess zúbova and this same laugh prince
this unpleasant impression merely flitted over the young and happy face
this uncertainty and hurry... there—they are shouting again, and
this! the chief news, about which all moscow gossips, is the death of
this table with the thought of winning a hundred rubles to buy that
this strong, brave man, this model son and officer that, judging by this
this strange incident, and then shrugging his shoulders went to the door
this speech how they could best handle the master for their own ends.
this silence was broken by one of the brethren, who led pierre up to the
this short man nodded to dolgorúkov as to an intimate friend and stared
this short man had on a white leather apron which covered his chest and
this same room was dimly lighted by two candles. on one small table tea
this resemblance he was exceedingly ugly. his features were like his
this reinforcement.
this poetic and pure intimacy, were what my heart needed. but enough of
this name day of hers had been one of the pleasantest she had ever had.
this murderer and villain! we alone must avenge the blood of the just
this moment of happy, rapturous excitement. she gazed at him, not taking
this misery, and money, and dólokhov, and anger, and honor—it’s all
this meant that tíkhon was not handing him the waistcoat he wanted.
this may be my only chance of seeing the emperor. it won’t be long
this marriage. he recalled her former words and looks and the words
this magnanimity bonaparte subsequently repaid by death.
this lowest-grade greeting, a look of anxiety and fear, as at the sight
this is what i was proud of! i then thought that i did not understand
“this is what i want, my dear fellow,” said the count to the
“this is what i think. austria has been made a fool of, and she is
“this is the first act. those that follow are naturally increasingly
this is the battle of pultúsk, which is considered a great victory but
“this is not at all the thing,” he said. “what sort of polish
“this is for borís from me, for his outfit.”
“this is dólokhov,” said prince andrew.
    * “this is a pleasure one gets in camp, prince.”
“this is all very fine, but things must be settled,” said prince
“this is absurd! come, let go i tell you.”
this is absolutely true.
this instant!” thought rostóv.
this information, the little princess and mademoiselle bourienne, whose
this indecision appeared to him majestic and enchanting, like everything
this house and in brünn itself. i want to entertain him as far as i
this holiday time. “seize the moments of happiness, love and be loved!
this he’ll soon have us, too, for his subjects! how are you?” and he
this heart, so kind and generous? say ‘perhaps’... the future is so
this guardsman would certainly have bowled rostóv and his bedouin over
this fact ought to give prince vasíli much satisfaction.
this expression evidently pleased him.
this expectation did not upset the regular routine of life in the old
this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost
this door led into a back anteroom. an old man, a servant of the
this disorder,” he muttered. “do as you like.”
this defect was not due to any fault of the regimental commander, for
this consciousness of mismanagement became a general conviction, but as
this card and i’ll take my cap and drive home to supper with denísov,
this?” but these doubts only lasted a moment. pierre glanced at
this buonaparte has turned all their heads; they all think of how he
this bone—a bill for thirty thousand rubles—to the poor princess
this black-eyed, wide-mouthed girl, not pretty but full of life—with
this battle, which consisted in the capture of a french squadron, was
this answer. “have you sought for means of attaining your aim in
this active old servant was unpacking the traveler’s canteen and
this action was so unlike her usual composure and the fear depicted on
thirty,” said he, looking at shinshín and the count with a joyful,
thirtieth he attacked mortier’s division, which was on the left bank,
thirteen look at the boy they are in love with and have just kissed for
“thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen,” she counted on her slender
third company he suddenly stopped. his suite, not having expected this,
thin lips interrupted weyrother, wishing to say something. but the
“think what you please! i know you are just like father. think as
think we thoroughly understand.
think the regiment is not a bad one, eh?”
think that he is your father ... perhaps in the agony of death.” she
think so yourself. and the main thing is,” he continued, “that i
think it over. go! yes or no, yes or no, yes or no!” he still shouted
thinking of?” she went on, turning to prince hippolyte. “fetch me my
thinking? i mustn’t forget. how shall i speak to the emperor? no,
thinking about you. why are you going?”
think, count? the next day it was not even mentioned in the orders of
think could hardly be found nowadays—but is she contented with her
thing we are interested in here,” said the spirit of the place.
things the old count sent to his son.
things that he has been expelled by the police.”
things that had never occurred. mademoiselle bourienne also shared them
things. she did not reply, but looked at her seriously.
things he should have shown it sooner, but he lets it go on for months.
things had to be. from the passage they went into a large, dimly
things, but austria never has wished, and does not wish, for war. she
things,” and the skin over his left temple puckered, “either you
things and supper dishes stood in disorder, and in the middle of the
thing i have faith in! our good and wonderful sovereign has to perform
thing he would have to unite his fate with hers. he might perhaps have
thing can be arranged. it shall be on your family’s behalf that i’ll
thing.”
thin face was now quivering with nervous excitement; his eyes, in which
thin face. her eyes, always sad, now looked with particular hopelessness
thick-set general with grizzled eyebrows and whiskers, and wider from
thick, bushy eyebrows. prince andrew went up and kissed his father on
they would not for an instant let his shoulder move a hair’s breadth.
they would have remained there for a long time testing each other’s
“they were there this evening, but now i don’t know, your
they were saying was amusing, but because she felt happy and was unable
they were in the carriage. “he hardly recognizes anybody.”
“they were in a hurry enough to start us, and now here we stand in
they were firing at could not be seen for the smoke which there was no
they were as usual laughing.
they were again silent.
they went up to the door of the sitting room from which came the sound
they went through the porch and into the stable. the lieutenant
they went out and walked about till dinnertime, talking of the political
“they’ve been saying so a long while,” said the count, “and
they too could, like natásha and borís, escape from the drawing room.
they stood silent, facing one another. the old man’s sharp eyes were
they seized him by his arms; but he was so strong that everyone who
they seemed of them, one could feel by the occasional glances they gave
“they say the ball will be very good,” replied the princess, drawing
“they say pierre is quite broken by his misfortune.”
they rose from the table and sat down in the entrance porch which served
they rode up the opposite hill. from there the french could already be
“they’re coming!... they’re coming!... stand aside, make way,
they’re coming!” alarmed voices were heard, and a stir of final
“they received me and my news as one receives a dog in a game of
“they’re always in love with someone,” he thought of sónya and
they quite understood one another as to the first part of their romance,
the youth and inexperience of the sovereign, who had trusted worthless
the young prince. the members of the household were all gathered in the
the young princess bolkónskaya had brought some work in a
the young people, at the countess’ instigation, gathered round the
“the young man’s a real hussar!” shouted the colonel, again
the young man had departed. “there is never any ‘impossible’ with
the young man, flattered, sat down nearer to her with a coquettish
the younger emperor could not restrain his wish to be present at the
they named the colonel, prince repnín.
they must look somewhere, or it meant too much. pierre hesitated,
“they must be feeling dull, too,” said one of the bolder officers,
“they might call a halt here or we’ll have to do another four miles
“they march splendidly,” remarked someone in bagratión’s suite.
they’ll say so again and again, and that will be the end of it. my
they’ll ransack that castle,” he remarked with evident approval.
“they have gone to bed and put out their lights, your excellency.”
they halted in silence. there was nothing fresh to be seen from the
they had when she was not thinking of herself. as with everyone, her
they had not met for nearly half a year and, being at the age when young
they had looked at the regimental commander, seeming by their expression
they had lifted the dying man and were moving him.
they had gone by, the same stream of soldiers followed, with the same
they had entered moscow.
they got into the carriage and drove for a few minutes in silence.
“they give little hope,” replied the prince.
they gave her an attraction more powerful than that of beauty. but the
they entered the large hall, from which one of the doors led to the
they entered the elegant, newly decorated, and luxurious dining room.
they do the guns.”
“they don’t even give one time to dwink!” answered váska
they dismounted and entered the tent. several officers, with flushed and
they could not fail to vanquish anyone, be it whom it might: so thought
they contain; for how can we, miserable sinners that we are, know the
“they coax me as if i were váska the cat!” said denísov jokingly.
“they can’t be far off, probably just beyond the stream,” he said
they both felt happy). “we had our hands full last night. however, i
they became silent, and pierre thought he saw the princess hide
they assure the officer on duty that they, the marshals, are on
“they are regular brigands, especially dólokhov,” replied the
they are beaten, flogged, or sent to siberia, i don’t suppose they are
they all were, or seemed to be, pretty—so rapturous were their smiles
they all separated, but, except anatole who fell asleep as soon as he
they all had but one wish: to advance as soon as possible against the
“the wound is not here, it is there!” said kutúzov, pressing the
the worst,” said the austrian general, evidently wishing to have done
the words of the order were not clear to the regimental commander, and
the word of command rang out, and again the regiment quivered, as with a
the women.”
the woman’s vehicle for trying to get ahead of others, and the strokes
the woman he had known as a child, of whom when her beauty was mentioned
the window sill, but refrained from touching it. pierre again covered
the wind had fallen and black clouds, merging with the powder smoke,
the wind.
“the will will show that, my dear; our fate also depends on it.”
the will and letter will be delivered to the emperor, and the petition
the wild set led by dólokhov. zherkóv had met dólokhov abroad as a
“the wife!” said the old prince, briefly and significantly.
the whole story of life. you talk of bonaparte and his career,” said
the whole place were dragging logs and brushwood and were building
the whole matter and decide what was right and how he should act, but
the whole interest was concentrated on rostóv. instead of sixteen
the whole human race, offering it in our members an example of piety
the whole day was finally and indubitably answered in the affirmative.
the well-known prince bolkónski who had to retire from the army under
the weight of his knapsack.
the weather had cleared again since noon and the sun was descending
the way he walked through the ranks behind the generals, bending forward
the way from ulm, while dólokhov maintained that the russians had not
the wax with the baby’s hair had not sunk in the font but had floated.
the water, and approaches the tête-de-pont. at length appears the
the war was flaming up and nearing the russian frontier. everywhere one
the war is over, that the emperor francis is arranging a meeting with
the wall, his eyes fixed on a burning candle, and seemed not to listen
the waiter.
the visitors, and before the visitors i tell you that in future you are
the visitor, not knowing what to say, shook her head.
the visitor made a gesture with her hand.
the visitor, compelled to look on at this family scene, thought it
the village letting the troops pass by him. that morning kutúzov seemed
the village again, but túshin’s guns could not move, and the
the vicomte wished to begin his story and gave a subtle smile.
the vicomte who was meeting him for the first time saw clearly that
the vicomte was a nice-looking young man with soft features and polished
the vicomte told his tale very neatly. it was an anecdote, then current,
the vicomte’s story. prince vasíli’s words frightened her, an
the vicomte merely shrugged his shoulders. pierre looked solemnly at his
“the vicomte knew the duc personally,” whispered anna pávlovna to
the vicomte bowed and smiled courteously in token of his willingness to
the vicomte appreciated this silent praise and smiling gratefully
the very time he was expressing this conviction to himself, in another
the valley. the fourth column, with which kutúzov was, stood on the
the uselessness of freeing the serfs, who were quite happy as it was.
the unsolved problem that tormented him was caused by hints given by the
“the unpleasant things were said to me,” remarked véra, “i said
the unknown general looked disdainfully down at kozlóvski, who was
the two young men, the student and the officer, friends from childhood,
the two pávlograd squadrons, having crossed the bridge, retired up the
the two ladies, addressing prince vasíli and pointing to an inlaid
the two generals and the adjutant took hold of the field glass, trying
the tverskáya street rode the hussar with mustaches... i thought about
the tsar with another glance at the emperor francis, as if inviting
the tsar stopped a few minutes in front of the hussars as if undecided.
the tsar said something more which rostóv did not hear, and the
the tsar looked intently and observantly into kutúzov’s eye
the tsar heard but obviously did not like the reply; he shrugged his
the tsar addressed the officers also: “i thank you all, gentlemen, i
the tsar!”
the troops were running in such a dense mass that once surrounded by
the troops of the vanguard were stationed before wischau, within sight
the troops in their disorderly flight confirmed these rumors.
the troops again began to move, and two battalions of the nóvgorod and
the tremor of the speaker’s voice—which sometimes almost broke—or
the traveler was joseph alexéevich bazdéev, as pierre saw from the
the town where the headquarters and the diplomatic corps were stationed
the torzhók peddler woman, in a whining voice, went on offering her
the tipsy guests who were again crowding round the window, and listening
the time had come to experience the joy of an attack of which he had so
the thuerassa, he merely saves us a great deal of trouble and all our
the three voices, hers, mademoiselle bourienne’s, and katie’s, who
the third time the rhetor came back more quickly and asked pierre
“the third, i said the third!” cried the prince abruptly, pushing
the third interruption came when prince andrew was finishing his
the third group was gathered round mortemart and anna pávlovna.
the third division and convinced himself that there really were no
the third company was the last, and kutúzov pondered, apparently trying
the third!”
the termination of the ceremony. he looked up joyfully at the baby when
the temperature shown by the political thermometer to the company that
the tears from his eyes and from the letter, then having dried her
the tall, fair-haired general buxhöwden stood, leaning his back against
the table which was scrawled over with figures, wet with spilled wine,
the table, summoned his daughter. he never gave his children a blessing,
the table, searched everywhere, and stood still in the middle of the
the table, screened by a bound music book so that the light did not fall
the table, onto which he threw it.
the table in a merry mood, sitting down now by one, now by another, of
the sutlers. on receiving borís’ letter he rode with a fellow officer
the suite pointed out to bagratión a french column that was outflanking
the subject of her request and must not be shown before the request was
the stupid smile, which had left his face while he was speaking,
the study, like pistol shots, came the frequent sound of the old man
the struggling men, and the fate of the red-haired gunner, who had
the stretchers moved on. at every jolt he again felt unendurable pain;
the stretchers, and love of the sun and of life, all merged into one
the stranger’s face was not genial, it was even cold and severe, but
the story was very pretty and interesting, especially at the point
the stores are empty, the roads impassable. the orthodox begin looting,
the still greater unimportance of death, the meaning of which no one
the stewards (there were semiliterate foremen among them) listened with
the steward did not say it was quite impossible, but suggested selling
“the step must be taken but i cannot, i cannot!” thought pierre,
the state of the prussian army. as soon as he had finished she turned to
the standard.
the staff officer remained behind and prince andrew rode on alone.
the staff officer on duty.
the staff officer and prince andrew mounted their horses and rode on.
the staff captain’s voice began to tremble. “you have been in the
the staff captain, kírsten, had twice been reduced to the ranks for
the staff captain in his deep bass, calmly stroking his long mustache.
the staff captain, “but we old fellows, who have grown up in and, god
the staff captain.
“the squadwon can’t pass,” shouted váska denísov, showing his
“the squadron quartermaster!” said lavrúshka.
the squadron in which rostóv was serving had scarcely time to mount
the squadron crossed the bridge and drew out of range of fire without
the spot indicated to him. he made no reply on his father’s favorite
the spot chosen for the duel was some eighty paces from the road,
the spectators by the unexpectedness of his adroit maneuvers and
the special deep cooing tone, precluding the possibility of interrupting
“the sovereigns? i do not speak of russia,” said the vicomte, polite
the southern spring, the comfortable rapid traveling in a vienna
the sound of voices and the shouts of command. the whole air reeked with
the sound of musketry at the foot of the hill, now diminishing, now
the son sighed, thus admitting that his father had understood him. the
the son, or pierre, whom it had been pitiful to see, so stricken was he
the son, lowering his eyes, followed her quietly.
the soldier. “turn back with your slut!”
the soldier to whom the laughers referred was dólokhov. prince andrew
the soldiers who had carried prince andrew had noticed and taken the
“the soldiers say it feels easier without boots,” said captain
the soldiers laughed. a moment later, an adjutant arrived with the same
the soldiers’ faces and unnatural warlike solemnity on those of the
the soldiers crowded against one another with terrified faces, and
the soldier always has around him the same comrades, the same ranks, the
the sofa. the princess came in. she had changed her gown for a house
“the snow is deep. i am having the avenue swept, your honor.”
the snow, greedily bit at it, again raised his head, adjusted himself,
the smoke, rostóv hesitated whether to gallop after them or to go where
the smell of linstocks, came the artillery which crawled between the
the sly what was left in the glasses. from the third room came sounds of
the sky, the dawn merging with the afterglow of sunset, was visible.
the sinews and scorching the flesh of his sprained arm and shoulder. to
the silence lasted some time. prince bagratión, apparently not wishing
the sight of the killed and wounded.
the sick man was so surrounded by doctors, princesses, and servants
the shirt.
the shed with super human force, throwing up a mass of earth. the ground
these words he repeated to everyone without exception or variation, and
these things. i absolutely must see him, however painful it may be for
these sights and sounds had no depressing or intimidating effect on him;
these same questions which he could not solve and yet could not cease to
the service before everything. thanks, thanks!” and he went on
the service and patriotically russian. he resented shinshín’s remark.
the servant handed him a book which pierre took to be a devotional work,
the servant brought back his tumbler turned upside down, * with an
these rooms. anna mikháylovna, addressing a maid who was hurrying past
the serious faces of those around, remembered all he had already gone
the sergeant to meet some mounted men who were riding along the line.
the sergeant major with brightened expressions, licking their lips and
these poignant joys and sorrows. you are fortunate, for the latter are
these latter the butler thrust mysteriously forward, wrapped in a
these,” he said, handing him several papers, “make a neat memorandum
these gentlemen ride onto the bridge alone and wave white handkerchiefs;
the second princess had just come from the sickroom with her eyes red
the seat indicated to him beside the fair hélène and listened to the
the seal of her letter. it was from her most intimate friend from
the scraping of chairs. then one of those conversations began which last
the scoundrels!”
the score against him reached the fateful sum of forty-three thousand.
the same words, about their health and her own, and the health of her
the same time, my honored benefactor,” wrote prince vasíli. “my son
the same, then why this duel, this murder? either i shall kill him, or
the same happy, rapturous faces turned to the shaggy figure of denísov.
the salute and unable to repress the smile of delight induced by his
the sale of the land and forests and to release them from the land bank,
the rustle of a woman’s dress was heard in the next room. prince
the russian with his heir the tsarévich, and the austrian with the
the russians were running away and that he himself was killed, but he
the russian officer in charge of the transport lolled back in the front
the russian emperor’s aide-de-camp is an impostor. officers are
the russian army) are nothing compared to what this man has been doing
the rostóvs since the day of his departure for the army. to be in anna
the rostóvs knew everybody in moscow. the old count had money enough
the room was crowded with small pieces of furniture, whatnots,
the room, pondering over his vicious past, and with a rapturous sense
the room, and seeming not to notice the chairs was dashing straight at
the road he reined in his horse, hesitating whether to ride along it or
the rivers inn (at braunau) and traun (near linz). on october 23 the
the right they will expose a flank to me. soldiers! i will myself direct
the right flank and the french were already advancing, were engaged
the right and sent an adjutant to the dragoons with orders to attack the
the ribs and telling him to hold his hand up. soldiers scattered over
the rhetor, “is an emblem of something not cognizable by the senses
the rhetor cleared his throat, crossed his gloved hands on his breast,
the rhetor but pierre’s sponsor, willarski, whom he recognized by his
“there will be a council of war at kutúzov’s tonight, though; you
“there, what egotists men all are: all, all egotists! just for a whim
there were in the room a child’s cot, two boxes, two armchairs, a
there was still the same bewitching combination of majesty and mildness
there was something peculiar about it, quite unsoldierly, rather comic,
there was really nothing to be seen in front except a barren descent
there was now no one in the reception room except prince vasíli and the
there was nothing to be said, and neither wished to give occasion for
there was nothing between the squadron and the enemy, and again that
there was not a trace of agitation on his face. with delicate irony he
there was no reason why it should not reach the pávlograd regiment,
there was no one in the hall. “oh god! is everyone all right?”
there was no one beyond the ditch now. only some carts and carriages
there was none he would so much like to have for a friend as that very
there was no laughter in the maids’ large hall. in the men servants’
there was no answer to any of these questions, except one, and that
there was generally a drinking bout, finishing with visits of a kind
there was a general movement as the princess, smiling and talking
there was a crush. halfway across stood prince nesvítski, who had
the revolving pulleys whirr with the rapidity of their movement, but a
the retreat of the frightened bonaparte.
the retreat from austerlitz, where he alone had withdrawn his column
“there! they are bringing another!” cried one of the officers,
“there, there! do you feel it? i feel so strange. and do you know,
there. then, as happens to people of weak character, he desired so
there! tea!”
the rest of the evening.
the rest of his life.
“there’s the corner at the crossroads, where the cabman, zakhár,
the rest.”
there’s some mistake,” thought he. “they can’t have wanted to
“there’s plenty to do still.”
the resounding strains of the polonaise:
“there’s nothing to be gay about,” answered bolkónski.
“there’s nothing for me to understand,” she cried out with
“there’s no need to talk! he receives his orders and will marry you
there, she glided up to him with a sort of amble, not exactly bowing yet
“the reserves, sire!” replied a voice, a very human one compared to
the reproachful tone of a man who has repeated the same thing more
the report which had been circulated that the austrians had been beaten
the report of musketry.
there. pierre had the air of a man preoccupied with considerations which
“there now, zíkin, they ought to put you on a horse. you’d look
“there now, you wish to liberate your serfs,” he continued; “that
there. now then!”
“there now, the kúrskies have also gone past,” was being said in
“there now!... so you, too, are in the great world?” said he to
“there now!” said the officer of the suite, “that’s
“there now, prince! we can’t stop those fellows,” said the staff
“there now! it’s true that all you women are crybabies,” remarked
“there now! didn’t i tell you, michael mítrich, that if it was said
“there now! confess that this is delightful,” said he. “this
there many more of you to come?”
the remains of our regiment which had been in action rapidly formed up
the remains of langeron’s and dokhtúrov’s mingled forces were
“there, leave bruin alone; here’s a bet on.”
“there, it’s just as i thought,” said rostóv to himself. “he
“there is still time, my dear. you must remember, catiche, that it was
“there is still much, much before us,” he said, as if with an old
there is so much happiness; but here... groans, suffering, fear, and
“there is something up,” thought nicholas, and he was further
“there is something nasty, something wrong, in the feeling she excites
there is only mademoiselle bourienne....”
“there is one thing i constantly pray god to grant, mon cousin,” she
“there is nothing so refreshing after a sleepless night as a cup
“there is in moscow a lady, une dame, and she is very stingy. she must
there is hardly time to put in action—seeing pierre, touched his
there in which he had now no part could perturb him. he shut his eyes,
“there... he’s puffing again,” muttered túshin to himself, as a
there?” he said, turning to the door as he heard a tread of heavy
“there he is!” said borís, thinking rostóv had said “his
there had been actions at lambach, amstetten, and melk; but despite the
there, god only knows what would have happened! you know, uncle promised
the regiment under a hail of bullets which fell around, but fortunately
the regiment kutúzov had reviewed at braunau and in which dólokhov was
the regiment i’d... ah well, i’ll show that in action, and for me
the regiment broke up into companies, which went to their appointed
the regiment, and how satisfied his father was with him. berg evidently
the regimental commander was afraid he might be blamed for this and did
the regimental commander sought out dólokhov in the ranks and, reining
(the regimental commander’s face now that the inspection was happily
the regimental commander on horseback and some ten men of his company,
the regimental commander, going up to the line himself, ordered the
the regimental commander, flushing, ran to his horse, seized the stirrup
the regimental adjutant came in and confirmed the news brought by
therefore you seek wisdom and virtue. is that not so?” said the
therefore—this is between ourselves—i instinctively feel that we
therefore offered this truce to avoid unnecessary bloodshed. count
therefore met with unaltered looks the angrily inquisitive expression of
(the reflection was still incomplete), he caught himself smiling and was
“there, fedótov, you should be quartered on them!”
the recruiting, granted by the emperor. if i had been two hours late
the reception room, where he found some ten officers and generals.
there as he. and now—this duel! have these people no feeling, or
the rearguard stood with a staff officer, scanning the country through
the rearguard by the commander in chief, was sitting on the trail of a
the rearguard and have an eye on the order of retreat, “which is also
there are things in it difficult for the feeble human mind to grasp, it
“there are so many prisoners today, nearly the whole russian army,
“there are precedents, i may mention schwarzenberg.”
there are no difficulties in your way.... but nicholas is my cousin...
there any hope?”
there.”
there.
“the rat”) he said, rubbing his forehead and whole face with both
the ras...” he did not finish.
the ranks of obscure officers and offer him the first step to fame!
the ranks, and above all being unable to see anything in front or around
the ranks.
the quiet home life and peaceful happiness of bald hills presented
the question arose whether the troops were to be in marching order or
the purse is here! i’ll flay this scoundwel alive, and it will be
the puhse?” he asked, turning to rostóv.
the prussian army and was aide-de-camp to a very important personage.
the project gutenberg ebook of war and peace, by leo tolstoy
the prince, who was in his large study. from the far side of the house
the prince was silent and looked indifferent. but, with the womanly and
the prince was lying on the sofa, looked at him, noticed his perturbed
the prince turned round to the overseer and fixed his eyes on him,
the prince stopped. he saw the effect these words had produced on his
the prince sternly; “i’m afraid you write much nonsense. i’ll read
the princess wished to rise, but the prince held her by the hand. she
the princess, who had a straight, rigid body, abnormally long for her
the princess went up to the door, passed by it with a dignified and
the princess started. evidently pierre’s words touched her to the
the princess smiled. she rose with the same unchanging smile with which
the princess smiled as people do who think they know more about the
the princess saw that her father regarded the matter with disapproval,
the princess sank helplessly into an armchair beside her father and
the princess said nothing, but suddenly her short downy lip quivered.
the princess rested her bare round arm on a little table and considered
the princess pondered awhile with a thoughtful smile and her luminous
the princess, picking up her dress, was taking her seat in the dark
the princess, now quite changed. “and what does she come worming
the princess looked in a scared way at her father’s eyes glittering
the princess listened, smiling.
the princess let go.
the princess, holding her little dog on her lap with her thin bony
the princess glanced at her watch and, seeing that she was five minutes
the princess gave no reply and did not even smile, but left the room as
the princess gave a wrong answer.
the princess’ eyes grew dim, she could not see and could not hear
the princess did speak, her words would not be flattering to anna
the princess did not reply. their efforts in the struggle for the
the princess did not fall down or faint. she was already pale, but on
the princess continued to look at him without moving, and with the same
the princess blushed, and raised her arms with a gesture of despair.
the princess bent over the exercise book on the table.
the princess and hastily adjusting his lorgnette, as if without this
the princess.
the prince looked at his daughter’s frightened face and snorted.
the prince gave orders that no one should leave his post. now you,
the prince bowed to signify his respect and gratitude.
the prince bowed his head and went up to the porch. “god be
the prince answered nothing, but she looked at him significantly,
the prince again laughed his frigid laugh.
the prim visitor could not help joining in.
the priest with a goose feather anointed the boy’s little red and
the priests, rose and offered him her seat; an aide-de-camp picked up
the priests and deacons and some servants also went in at the door.
the pre-eminence.
“the praise of a great commander is a soldier’s highest reward,”
the povarskáya, so well known to all moscow. the countess herself and
the postmaster, his wife, the valet, and a peasant woman selling
the postmaster came in and began obsequiously to beg his excellency to
the postilion started, the carriage wheels rattled. prince hippolyte
the possessor of wealth. how have you used it? what have you done
the portfolio so firmly that it was plain she would not let go easily.
the point of view of the old countess and of society it was out of the
the pleasure of spending the evening with you.”
the plan of operation for the coming campaign. he explained how an army,
the place of mourning for the younger female generation in the rostóv
the pine forests veiled in the mist of their summits... there was peace
“the picket is still on the hill, your excellency, just where it was
the people who know of it the less a woman in travail suffers, everyone
the people,” the abbé was saying. “it is only necessary for one
the pávlograd hussars were stationed two miles from braunau. the
“the pávlograd hussars?” he inquired.
the pathetic importance of these last moments of meeting between the
the patches grew deeper on her forehead, neck, and cheeks. she tried to
“the past always seems good,” said he, “but did not suvórov
the party of the young had triumphed. the voices of those who counseled
the pained expression his joke had brought to his sister’s face, he
the pack. much depended on rostóv’s winning or losing on that seven
the other—who with beaming faces had come to see their master making
the other side of the room. “how young-looking he is!”
the other side of the fire, warming his thin yellow body.
the others but win from you. or are you afraid of me?” he asked again.
the others. again someone shouted, “stretchers!” four men seized the
the other, quite a new reflection of the society in which they had taken
the other men in the room, her anxiety could only have reference to
the other, glanced inquiringly with his large, intelligent, kindly eyes
the other committeemen. “there will be many toasts, it’s time to
the other clutched his drooping pistol. his face was pale. rostóv ran
the order was given to halt and down knapsacks.
the orders were to abandon the wounded, many of them dragged themselves
the orderlies looked at him as if they wished to impress on him that a
the only young people remaining in the drawing room, not counting the
“the only thing that is hard for me... i will tell you the truth,
the onlookers, “will it be long? are things ready?”
(the one who had paraded his regiment before kutúzov at braunau) that
the one that will result from it will be as victorious! however, dear
the old prince was very affectionate and careful in his treatment of
the old prince. “very, very glad to have seen you,” repeated he,
the old prince stopped writing and, as if not understanding, fixed his
the old princess did not reply, she was tormented by jealousy of her
the old princess came in and also wept. the elderly lady was using
the old prince’s face.
the old prince knew that if he told his daughter she was making a
the old prince first heard of the defeat at austerlitz stated, as usual
the old prince dressed leisurely in his study, frowning and considering
the old prince did not sleep either. tíkhon, half asleep, heard him
the old man was silent.
the old man was in a good temper after his nap before dinner. (he
the old man turned angrily away.
the old man made a departure from his usual routine in honor of his
the old lady.
the old count, the countess, pétya, véra, natásha, and sónya, and
the old count pretended to be angry.
the old countess, not letting go of his hand and kissing it every
the old count cast down his eyes on hearing his son’s words and began
the old aunt received the two young people in her corner, but seemed
the official side of the service. these gentlemen received prince
the officers or adjutants who wandered about in the fog in those unknown
the officers laughed.
the officers got up and stood round the cossacks and their prisoner.
the officers gathered round denísov’s canteen, eating and talking.
the officers as he went: “have these gentlemen attended to and taken
the officers and men of denísov’s squadron, though they tried to talk
the officer glanced at him, and without replying turned again to the
the officer flourished his arm and hastily rode away.
“then you are serving?”
then, wostóv, now then!”
then with the unerring official memory that characterized him he
then with remarks which showed that he was in a good temper.
“then why are you here? you should have gone on long ago, now you
“then when am i to have it?”
“then what is this blood on the gun carriage?” inquired túshin.
the nursery, but sónya was not there either. natásha concluded that
the nurse lit the gilt candles before the icons and sat down by the door
the nurse brought it to him and nodded approval when she told him that
the nurse, as she stood in one of the doorways.
“then tomorrow you will speak to the emperor?”
“then they’ve not gone to bed yet? what do you think? mind now,
then the voice said something more, demyán replied, and the steps in
then that same face pale, quivering, and suffering, as it had been when
then, suddenly spread out in the sunlight, far-distant objects could
then suddenly he realized the joyful significance of that wail; tears
then she smiled again and clutched prince vasíli’s arm more tightly.
then she slipped down among the flowerpots on the other side of the tubs
then quickly glanced at dólokhov and, bending his finger as he had been
then particularly strong.
the novelty anna pávlovna was setting before her guests that evening
the nonsense talked by the austrian generals. shinshín, standing close
the noblest role on earth, and he is so virtuous and noble that god will
then nicholas sang a song he had just learned:
then named prince vasíli in an inquiring whisper, then pointed to the
“then it is certain?” said the prince.
“then i may reckon on it, your excellency?”
“then i’ll have it brought round,” said rostóv wishing to avoid
the night was foggy and through the fog the moonlight gleamed
the night was dark but starry, the road showed black in the snow that
the night ten miles from olmütz and next morning were to come straight
the night he received the news, kutúzov sent bagratión’s vanguard,
then he remained silent for a while, and all at once looked cheerfully
then he recalled the coarseness and bluntness of her thoughts and the
then he did everything so simply and with such assurance!) mademoiselle
the next day the emperor stopped at wischau, and villier, his physician,
the news of count bezúkhov’s death reached us before your letter
the new homestead he was constructing and its buildings, but even here,
the newcomer was a short, large-boned, yellow-faced, wrinkled old
the new campo formio are to be drawn up.”
the nearest soldiers shrank back, the gun driver stopped his horse, but
then detached ideas and impressions from the world of reality shot
then brought back to the general circle.
then, brothers, on to glory, led by father kámenski.” this song had
then both voices together with glad intonations, and then footsteps.
then believe an expert. i have just been talking to dmítri onúfrich”
the nations? adorable! it is enough to make one’s head whirl! it is as
then a thin, pale soldier, his neck bandaged with a bloodstained leg
then appointed to supervise the enrollment decreed throughout russia.
“then am i to order those large sterlets?” asked the steward.
then all will be right, as our bear huntsman at kostromá used to tell
“then allow me to express your regrets, and i am sure your opponent
then a gleam of bayonets; to the left beyond the village similar masses
then a general rode past shouting something angrily, not in russian.
then....”
them, when suddenly, clinking his spurs and spreading out his legs,
the mud off his face with his sleeve. “perched up there, you’re more
them the order to march, thereby indicating that he intended to lead
them taking off his cap) “from his animal condition and awaken in him
them strangely of the little princess. but what was still stranger,
them something funny and kept them amused, while he watched the young
themselves to túshin in all their horror. he had been so excited that
themselves, stifle this remorse and grow callous, as a result of being
themselves quite innocent, and since that day when he was overpowered
themselves, and the reading of the church service, the subdued chanting
themselves and grow more and more miserable.”
them rest and leisure?” said pierre, hurrying and lisping. “and
them—remained for a while without any definite opinion on the subject
them pierre noticed a large cast iron ring with a seal representing a
the mothers, wives, and children of the men who were going and should
the mother smoothed the folds of her dyed silk dress before a large
     * the most fascinating woman in petersburg.
the morning she told the rostóvs and all her acquaintances the details
the morning of the twentieth, when the memorable battle of austerlitz
the morning, carriages with six horses had been coming and going
them or make them move. on the one hand, the chief steward put the state
the more depressed.
the moment prince andrew entered the room had watched him with glad,
the moment is not bonaparte but buxhöwden. general buxhöwden was all
the moment he heard the firing and the cry from behind, the general
them off, inviting them all to dinner.
them now! and yet really the anxiety is greater now than the joy. one is
them, neither do i condemn them. only it seems to me that christian
them it was difficult to get out again. one was shouting, “get on!
the mist. from information he had received the evening before, from the
the mist, and his cold face wore that special look of confident,
them in the thick fog, the russians exchanged shots with the enemy
the minister of war but also his most august majesty the emperor and
the minister of war.”
the minister and his son had arrived, but the appearance of both had
the mines and blow up the bridge, this sergeant, seeing that the french
the military governor of moscow, who had been assiduous in sending
the mildness of his features, was all the greater. rostóv was happy
them. if he is not rich i will give her the means; i will ask my
the midwife was already on her way to meet her, rubbing her small, plump
the middle of a field without rhyme or reason. it’s all those damned
them!” he reflected.
them from the other end of the corridor, strauch, an austrian general
them from others was the absence of host or hostess and the presence of
the men (the commanders, as we saw at the council of war, were out of
the men and women had separated as in church. all were silently crossing
the men and officers returning spoke of a brilliant victory, of the
the memory of a remote event long past.
the members and guests of the club wandered hither and thither, sat,
the member of the hofkriegsrath looked at him severely but, seeing the
the meeting was at an end, and on reaching home pierre felt as if he had
“the means are ... the balance of power in europe and the rights of
them down! what?...” said rostóv, waking up. at the moment he opened
them curiosity, awe, and even love—a supercilious consciousness of
the mazurka, which was just coming into fashion, were danced. iogel had
the matter depended on my personal wishes, the will of his majesty the
“the master is not in, he’s gone to headquarters,” said
the mason. “yes, i never thought of it, but i have led a contemptible
the mason smiled with his gentle fatherly smile.
the mason’s arguments; he dreaded not to be able to believe in him.
the mason remained silent for a long time, evidently considering.
the mason looked intently at pierre and smiled as a rich man with
the mason did not move and for a long time said nothing after this
the mason cleared his throat huskily, as old men do, and called his
    * the marshalls.
them are harmful, especially the women. yes, dear boy,” he continued,
the march: in their greatcoats, and packs, and without any preparation
the man was wearing a bluish coat of broadcloth, he had no knapsack
the manly voice again interrupted the artillery officer.
them, and understood that it was useless and even cruel to insist.
them, and she doubts the means we have of gaining them. that is the
them, and reads those from the emperor addressed to others. ‘ah! so
them. and among all these faces that he found so tedious, none seemed
the manager of all his affairs, and while looking with pleasure at the
them. all eyes fastened involuntarily on this french column advancing
the maintenance of the balance of power of europe, and it would save the
the magnificent reception room was crowded. everyone stood up
them.”
the loss of prince andrew had reached bald hills, and in spite of the
“the lord be thanked, yes!”
the look she felt upon her made that world still more poetic. but
the long german carts six or more pale, dirty, bandaged men were being
the lodge, told the password, and at last was permitted to sit down.
the living from the dead lies uncertainty, suffering, and death. and
the living charm of her neck and shoulders, so near to his lips that
the lively song gave a special flavor to the tone of free and easy
the liveliness of a fourteen-year-old boy, and yet it was the face
the little town could be seen with its white, red-roofed houses, its
the little princess went round the table with quick, short, swaying
the little princess talked incessantly, her short, downy upper lip
the little princess, taking the dress from the maid, came up to princess
the little princess. she felt, as courtiers do when the tsar enters, the
the little princess, like an old war horse that hears the trumpet,
the little princess lay supported by pillows, with a white cap on her
the little princess lay in the armchair, mademoiselle bourienne chafing
the little princess, kissing her. “i know you already through my
the little princess had grown stouter during this time, but her eyes
the little princess had also left the tea table and followed hélène.
the little princess grumbled to her maid that her bed was badly made.
the little princess got up, rang for the maid, and hurriedly and merrily
the little princess entered the room. the passage broke off in the
the little princess during the whole discussion and the rest of
the little princess did not, or did not wish to, hear his words. she was
the little princess and mademoiselle bourienne had already received
    * the little one is charming.
the little kitten, feasting her eyes on him, seemed ready at any moment
the line that had so sharply divided the two armies?” he asked himself
the lines and an adjutant ran to look for the missing officer.
the line of retreat on the left by the french. however inconvenient the
“the limits of human life ... are fixed and may not be
the lieutenant never looked the man he was speaking to straight in the
the letter was old, having been written before the battle at
the letter away, and leaning his elbows on the table he drew toward him
the left! wait a bit.” but the soldiers, crowded together shoulder to
the left, the firing became more distinct. kutúzov had stopped and was
the left-flank columns had already descended.
the left, and took up the bottle. anatole brought two candles and
the latter lay silent in the sleigh with closed eyes and did not answer
the latter began to feel that it was in bad taste to speak of his
the late emperor, and was nicknamed ‘the king of prussia.’ he is
the last syllable of the general’s name like a frenchman, “has been
the last post station but one before moscow, denísov had drunk three
the last of the infantry hurriedly crossed the bridge, squeezing
the last of the horse guards, a huge pockmarked fellow, frowned angrily
the large table covered with books and plans, the tall glass-fronted
the large drawing room. prince vasíli came up to pierre with languid
the landing. “i’d better go to my own room.”
the landing below, philip, the footman, stood looking scared and holding
the kitchen would have cared to eat, so anna pávlovna served up to
their woman’s way! i am glad to have her. sit down and talk. about
their way to negotiate with prince auersperg. he lets them enter the
their thick, bushy eyebrows sternly scanned all present and rested on
their seats, went up to “congratulate” the countess, and reached
their sabers catching in the bridles and their spurs jingling, the
their places, and one of them read an exhortation on the necessity of
their own resources what might be needed for the success of the fete.
their own form of government; and i believe that once free from the
their name and my own i hold out a brotherly hand to you.”
their musical talent, to sing something. natásha, who was treated as
their meaning but must keep them. the second pair of man’s gloves
their marriage, with bare shoulders and a languid, passionate look on
their long hair falling over their magnificent glittering vestments,
their journey. she answered him and continued her chatter.
their guns, were running toward him. he also saw french infantry
their grief in their own way. the old prince would not cherish any hope:
their greatcoats were ranged in lines, the sergeants major and company
their faces was a quiet and solemn look.
their doubts and excite their imagination, giving them a bent for
their courage before him.
their conversation would probably have been different but for the effect
their cleanliness and discipline. they had come by easy stages, their
their bayonets and guns.
their battery a milk-white cloud arose. then came the distant report of
their adjutants had come to witness the curious phenomenon of the
the intellectual lights of petersburg were gathered there and, like a
the inlaid portfolio. pierre signed the deed and after that the princess
the inhabitants of the district.
the infantry who had been stopped crowded near the bridge in the
the infantry regiments that had been caught unawares in the outskirts
the imposing figure of nesvítski followed by his cossack, and
the idea of defeat and flight could not enter rostóv’s head. though
the icon stand. to her surprise and distress she found that her prayers
the icons, as though declaring to all that she could not answer for
the icons and there was a pleasant scent of flowers and burnt pastilles.
the ice gave way under one of the foremost soldiers, and one leg slipped
the ice bore him but it swayed and creaked, and it was plain that it
the hussars ran back to the men who held their horses; their voices
the hussar shouted back.
the hussars crowded round and responded heartily with loud shouts.
the hussars.”
the hussar only sighed without replying and coughed angrily. the sound
the hussar did not reply.
the house where the commander in chief was.
“the hours are the same, and the lathe, and also the mathematics and
the horses’ croups began to sway in the front line. rook pulled at the
the horse guards were galloping, but still holding in their horses.
the horse guards.
the hope of an alliance with her.
“the hoof’s cracked! that’s nothing. i’ll teach you what to do
the honor of the flag... well, never mind, it’s true i’m to blame,
the honor of being received, that i have not yet had time to think of
the honor, but i shall never be your son’s wife.”
the homestead consisted of a threshing floor, outhouses, stables, a
the hollow the less they could see but the more they felt the nearness
the hofkriegsrath and both emperors took part. at that council, contrary
the hill not to go beyond the stream, but rostóv pretended not to hear
the high-shouldered figure of zherkóv, familiar to the pávlograds as
“the highest wisdom is not founded on reason alone, not on those
the highest wisdom has but one science—the science of the whole—the
“the highest wisdom and truth are like the purest liquid we may wish
the highest law thou shalt regain traces of the ancient dignity which
the heavy standard, he ran forward with full confidence that the whole
the head that he was considering this information.
the headquarters were situated two miles away from salzeneck, and
“the head of the garrison at glogau, with ten thousand men, asks the
the head of the column had already descended into the hollow. the clash
the handsome young emperor alexander, in the uniform of the horse
the handsome véra, who produced such an irritating and unpleasant
the handsome véra smiled contemptuously but did not seem at all hurt.
the hand nor a single muscle of the count’s face stirred. once more
the hall porter sullenly pulled a bell that rang upstairs, and turned
the hall porter, “i know count cyril vladímirovich is very ill...
the half-closed eyes was there greedily gnawing a mutton bone, and the
the hair was wet, so profusely had the child perspired. he was not dead,
the gunners who had seized it straining to roll it quickly back to its
the guests. to each of them he made some careless and agreeable remark
the guests, knowing of the affair with the bear, looked with curiosity
the guests got up and took their leave, promising to return to dinner.
the guards to the field of battle, afraid of letting a ready victim
the guards had made their whole march as if on a pleasure trip, parading
the guards had gone to the front; dólokhov had been reduced to the
the group round mortemart to listen to what was being said there, and
the ground, as a heavy fire had been opened on him and he was losing
the greatest war there ever was, and i know nothing and am fit for
the greater part of the men had to halt and an unpleasant consciousness
the gray-haired valet was sitting drowsily listening to the snoring of
the grand master rapped with his mallet. all the masons sat down in
the grand master proposed that the last duty should be performed,
the grand master began reading the statutes. they were very long, and
the grand cross of maria theresa, and the whole army received rewards.
the good-natured iogel, flying about like a feather and bowing according
the good-natured expression still more apparent, and gazed at his friend
the glory of our arms and of the day’s work, they assumed a serious
the gleaming icons stood a long invalid chair, and in that chair
the girls sprang aside. denísov hid his hairy legs under the blanket,
the girl smiled and took it. nesvítski like the rest of the men on the
the gesture of a man too busy to lose a moment, glanced at kutúzov and,
the german village of salzeneck. the best quarters in the village were
the german laughed, came out of the cowshed, pulled off his cap, and
the german landlord.
the german closed his eyes, signifying that he did not understand.
the gentlemen of the tsar’s suite by his poor french.
the gentlemen assembled at bilíbin’s were young, wealthy, gay society
the gentlemen around.
the gentlemen and mademoiselle bourienne rose and the little princess,
the general, who looked through his field glass.
the general... third company to the commander.” the words passed along
the general, the men themselves not knowing what, or why, they were
the generals were passing by, looking as if they wished to avoid
the general state of affairs which was far from satisfactory.
the generals seemed to listen reluctantly to the difficult dispositions.
the general’s face clouded, his lips quivered and trembled. he took
the general pleasure and disappoint everyone’s expectation. prince
the general had so wished to do this and was so sorry he had not managed
the general had a fit of coughing as a result of shouting and of the
the general frowned, turned away, and went on.
the general frowned. though there was no definite news of an austrian
the gates, a group of undertakers, who hid whenever a carriage drove up,
the game continued; a waiter kept handing round champagne.
the full significance of the words he heard.
the fulfillment of duty, he rose to see some visitors off and, stroking
the front. i held my sword in my left hand, count. all our family—the
the front, but at dürrenstein, where i was, our attack began after
the frightened face and the figure could not be altered, and that
the friends were silent. neither cared to begin talking. pierre
the french with his whole army was impossible. the road for the french
the french, who had ceased firing at this field strewn with dead and
the french were firing, and he felt his heart palpitating as he rode
the french were already near. prince andrew, walking beside bagratión,
the french, the spy reported, having crossed the vienna bridge, were
the french sentences which to them were meaningless, with an air of
the french onlookers and listeners laughed.
the frenchman langeron, kutúzov’s incapacity, and (it was whispered)
“the french have abandoned the left bank?”
the french had time to fire three rounds of grapeshot before the hussars
the french had been repulsed for the last time. and again and again in
the french had attacked the battery and, seeing kutúzov, were firing
the french guns were hastily reloaded. the infantry in their blue
the french grenadier.
the french, galloped along the front as hard as his horse could go, but
the french dragoon was a young alsatian who spoke french with a german
the french and lay down their arms at the first demand.
the french, after crossing the bridge at vienna, were advancing in
the forests in the province of kostromá, the land lower down the river,
the foremost, wearing a cossack cloak and lambskin cap and riding a
the foremost frenchman, the one with the hooked nose, was already so
the foreman of a spinning mill, when he has set the hands to work, goes
the foreboding of evil that had suddenly come over rostóv was more and
the fog had grown so dense that though it was growing light they could
the fog had begun to clear and enemy troops were already dimly visible
the flagstaff that had been dropped beside him. (the flag had already
the first words he heard on coming to his senses were those of a french
the first to seize the surrendering french officer by his collar. our
the first to catch his eye. he sent him.
the first time. sometimes that same look fell on pierre, and that funny
the first second. “a baby? what baby...? why is there a baby there? or
“the first man that turns up—she forgets her father and everything
the first door on the left led into the princesses’ apartments. the
the first couple. noiselessly, skillfully stepping with his little
the fires and shouting in the enemy’s army were occasioned by the fact
the fire of life had seemed extinguished, now flashed with brilliant
the field of battle, who though still in some confusion were less
“the field marshal is angry with the emperor and he punishes us all,
the felt boots approached the unseen bend of the staircase more rapidly.
the feeling, “it has begun! here it is!” was seen even on prince
the feather bed. natásha began consoling her, but her face showed that
the fate of battles had arrived. would this disorderly crowd of soldiers
the farther he went the more disorganized they were. the highroad on
the farther forward and nearer the enemy he went, the more orderly and
(the family solicitor) “and he says the same.”
the familiar staircase. the well-known old door handle, which always
the fall of austria’s capital. “how is it vienna was taken? what of
“the fact of the matter is,” said she significantly, and also in a
the face that emerged from the shirt.
the faces of officers and men brightened up at the sound. everyone got
the face of the little princess changed. she sighed and said: “yes,
the face of each soldier and each officer seemed to say.
the face and figure of prince andrew, in a fur cloak the deep collar of
the eyes of the guardsman’s horse. the heavy black horse, sixteen
the eyes of the general and the soldier met. the general became silent,
the expression she saw on the maid of honor’s face, and again relapsed
the experience of old cunctators.”
the exercise book containing geometrical figures.
“the execution of the duc d’enghien,” declared monsieur pierre,
“the exchange horses have just come,” answered the servant. “will
the evening again turned to borís, asking him in a tone of caressing
the epistles and gospels. let us not seek to penetrate what mysteries
the entrenchment, and went on again. just behind it they came upon some
the enormous study was full of things evidently in constant use.
the enormously high study door opened and showed the figure of a rather
the enns and the danube became visible, and the rocky left bank of the
the english will come off badly, you know, if napoleon gets across the
the englishman took out his purse and began counting out the money.
the englishman nodded, but gave no indication whether he intended to
the enemy’s fires, but heard the shouting of the french more loudly
“the enemy is still far away, your excellency. according to the
“the enemy has quenched his fires and a continual noise is heard from
the enchanted circle i cannot escape from. i am now going to the war,
the emperor without waiting for an answer turned away and said to one of
the emperor turned with a smile to one of his followers and made a
“the emperor! the emperor!” was suddenly heard among the hussars.
the emperor thanked prince andrew and bowed. prince andrew withdrew and
the emperor’s voice.
the emperor’s suite. one officer told rostóv that he had seen someone
the emperor’s severity regarding duels at that time, neither the
the emperor spoke to him most graciously. annette and i were speaking of
the emperor’s horse started at the sudden cry. this horse that had
the emperor interrupted him.
the emperor immediately!” thought rostóv and galloped on.
the emperor. he felt that this nearness by itself made up to him for the
the emperor, frowning slightly, bent his ear forward as if he had not
the emperor drew level with rostóv and halted. alexander’s face was
the emperor, and a thousand reasons occurred to him why it would be
“the emperor alexander,” said she, with the melancholy which
the emperor alexander and the king of prussia in berlin? if prussia
the emperor about him; so that in the case of his death—and he is
the eldest princess paused in her reading and silently stared at him
the elders began talking about bonaparte. julie karágina turned to
the elderly lady was a princess drubetskáya, belonging to one of the
“the eighteenth.”
the efforts of the old count, and instead of being degraded to the ranks
the ebb and flow of these sounds.
     the earth by english gold, we shall cause to share the same
thee, and even in those blasphemous words thou hast just uttered!”
the duties of wife and mother upon me i shall try to perform them as
the dull, sleepy expression was no longer there, nor the affectation
the duel with nesvítski, bezúkhov’s second. pierre went home, but
the duel between pierre and dólokhov was hushed up and, in spite of
the drawing room. he evidently tried to find something to say, but
“the doubt is flattering,” said “the man of profound intellect,”
the doorway appeared a student with a crimson coat collar, an officer
the door, was sitting at the table in a persian dressing gown, writing.
the door; the scream ceased and he heard the wail of an infant.
the door himself behind him.
the door and as soon as it opened his rough old arms closed like a vise
the door.
the doctor glanced at his watch.
the doctor entered. prince andrew went out and, meeting princess mary,
the doctor cast a rapid glance upwards and silently shrugged his
“the divine mercy is inexhaustible! unction is about to be
the dispositions were very complicated and difficult. they began as
the dispositions or anything else—he was engaged in satisfying the
“the dispositions!” exclaimed kutúzov bitterly. “who told you
the disordered battalion and at the enemy, “what’s that?”
the dinner sat silent, glancing with a frightened look now at her
“the devil skin your emperor.”
“the devil only knows what they’re about!” muttered denísov.
“the devil only knows! they say so.”
“the devil knows! they’ve killed everybody! it’s all up now!”
the determination of denísov who flourished his sword and shouted
the deep wet snow between the place where they had been standing and
the declaration from petersburg gave him particular pleasure, and that
the decisive point, and gains the victory alone. “but death and
the day. that’s what keeping one’s head means. that’s the way,
the day after the review, borís, in his best uniform and with his
the day after rostóv had been to see borís, a review was held of the
the day after he had been received into the lodge, pierre was sitting at
the darkness. this was the last french attack and was met by soldiers
the dam, the pond, and the bank.
the crystal decanters and fruit vases, the count kept glancing at his
the crowd, pushing forward desperately, squeezed together, moved a few
the crowd of retreating soldiers, ordering them back. bagratión rode up
the crowd moved on again. nesvítski realized that it was a cannon ball.
the court, carefully abstaining from expressing an opinion of his
the count went in first with márya dmítrievna, the countess followed
the count was delighted at anna mikháylovna’s taking upon herself one
the count was beginning to breathe heavily and quickly which was always
the count walked up and down the hall in his dressing gown, giving
the count sobbed yet more.
the count put his ear to the keyhole and listened.
the count, my uncle; but you, my dear, had better go to pierre meanwhile
the count jumped up and, swaying from side to side, spread his arms wide
“the count is suffering physically and mentally, and apparently you
the count, holding his cards fanwise, kept himself with difficulty from
the countess, with a smile.
the countess was upset by her friend’s sorrow and humiliating poverty,
the countess was a woman of about forty-five, with a thin oriental type
the countess tried to frown, but could not. márya dmítrievna shook her
“the countess told me to inquire whether your excellency was at
the countess shrugged her shoulders.
the countess had been prepared by anna mikháylovna’s hints at dinner.
the countess glanced at her silent son.
the countess’ eyes filled with tears and she pondered in silence.
the countess exchanged glances with anna mikháylovna. the latter
the countess did not believe her ears. denísov had proposed. to whom?
the countess as her mother and called her so) “that i am spoiling
the countess; about 70,000 went for interest on debts. the building of a
the count, dying with laughter.
the count danced well and knew it. but his partner could not and did not
the count considered.
the count came waddling in to see his wife with a rather guilty look as
the count burst out laughing. the other guests seeing that shinshín
the count and at anna mikháylovna, the latter very adroitly turned
the council of war was just over when prince andrew accompanied
the council of war, at which prince andrew had not been able to
the cot where she was standing, “better wait a bit... later...”
the cot. he did not look round, but still gazing at the infant’s face
the cossacks sold the horse for two gold pieces, and rostóv, being the
the copse across which our men, regardless of orders, were running and
the convoy officer.
the conversation was hushed.
the conversation to insignificant matters. natásha, who, of the whole
the conversation did not flag all evening and turned chiefly on the
the conversation broke up into insignificant small talk about the last
the conversation, “almost all the aristocracy has already gone over to
the contempt with which rostóv, from his fighting army point of view,
the concentrated activity which had begun at the emperor’s
the complete darkness túshin’s guns moved forward, surrounded by the
the company commander might get killed and he, as senior in the company,
the command of the left flank belonged by seniority to the commander of
the command of the army to general buxhöwden. during this interregnum
the commander with a tone of suffering in his voice, while there were
the commander of the regiment was an elderly, choleric, stout, and
the commander of the regiment turned to prince bagratión, entreating
the commander of the regiment, a thin, feeble-looking old man with a
the commander of the dragoons had already retreated beyond the dip in
the commander of the company, with his eyes fixed on his superior,
the commander in chief would inspect the regiment on the march. though
the commander in chief’s one sound eye showed him to be so preoccupied
the commander in chief, kutúzov.
the commander in chief is expected and you leave your place? eh? i’ll
“the commander in chief is engaged,” said kozlóvski, going
“the commander in chief is engaged,” repeated kozlóvski calmly.
the combatants advanced along the trodden tracks, nearer and nearer to
the column, gave him the order to advance.
the colonel was a stout, tall, plethoric german, evidently devoted to
the colonel told them that the declaration of war had already appeared
the colonel rode to the front, angrily gave some reply to questions put
the colonel looked silently at the officer of the suite, at the stout
the colonel deliberately stopped the regiment and turned to nesvítski.
the colonel, closely—to find in his face confirmation of his own
the cold wind, swarmed in these earthworks like a host of white ants;
the cold, austere tone of this man, whom he had almost always before met
the coin was a new one. rostóv rose and went up to telyánin.
the coach with six horses was waiting at the porch. it was an autumn
the club cook and the steward listened to the count’s orders with
the cloak they spread under him was wet with blood which stained his
the climate,” said he.
the clever though shy, but observant and natural, expression which
the cleverest among them, including the chief steward, understood from
the clear blue eyes looked at the commander in chief just as boldly as
the clavichord, sang the tune. bolkónski was not there. none of these
the child moved slightly in his sleep, smiled, and rubbed his forehead
the chief steward, who considered the young count’s attempts almost
the chief steward expressed great sympathy with pierre’s intentions,
the chief steward, a very stupid but cunning man who saw perfectly
the cheerful mood of their officers after the inspection infected the
the cheerful glitter of that autumn day was in keeping with the news of
the cheeks, the same expression was on her charming childlike face with
the chantry long before, but that nine tenths of the peasants in that
the chanting of the service ceased, and the voice of the priest was
the changed expression on prince bagratión’s face at this moment. it
the chair for her.
the center of the russian army, and that that center was already
the cause of the confusion was that while the austrian cavalry was
the cause of justice against the enemy of the human race. anna pávlovna
the cause of his grief.
the case is this: you ought to have thought the matter over and
the case, hesitated about lifting the injured or dead. the soldiers,
the carved back of a velvet chair he had turned round for the purpose,
the carriage as pale as anything. how they made the four black horses
the care of a skillful rider and, slightly bending over, disengaged his
the card tables were drawn out, sets made up for boston, and the
the campfire. they were quarreling and fighting desperately, each trying
the campaign and the two battles in which he had taken part, and his
the cadet was rostóv. with one hand he supported the other; he was
“‘the brook,’” suggested nicholas.
the brilliant surroundings in which he had last met his friend in
the bridge unobserved, flings the bags of incendiary material into
the bridges were strong and had handrails. everything bore an impress of
the bridge, for the horizon as seen from the valley through which the
the bridge chased each other along. looking on the bridge he saw equally
the bridge and not let us cross? but it will please our sovereign the
the bridge and its celebrated bridgehead and prince auersperg? we heard
the bridge.
the bottle of rum was brought. the window frame which prevented anyone
the boots.
the book was the gospel, and the white thing with the lamp inside was a
the bonfires of our infantry who were felling wood. the french line was
the bonfire, and addressing túshin asked him to have the guns moved a
the bohemian mountains with. it’s a bad lookout, old fellow! but
the black, hairy, snub-nosed face of váska denísov, and his whole
the bigwigs who guided the club’s opinion reappeared, and everybody
the better. but bogdánich, without looking at or recognizing rostóv,
the best post he could—preferably that of adjutant to some important
the best maroon dress, and so on, all would be well. they forgot that
“the berlin cabinet cannot express a feeling of alliance,” began
the bedchamber. the diplomatic career now lies open before you.”
the beauty went to the aunt, but anna pávlovna detained pierre, looking
the battle of schön grabern than you do now,” said his son with a
the battle had begun! prince andrew turned his horse and galloped back
the battlefield, believed that the french had been defeated and were
the battery to retire as quickly as possible. when the supports attached
the battalion commander perceived the jovial irony and laughed.
the battalion commander. “oh, my god!” he added, stepping resolutely
the baron.
the band struck up the newly introduced mazurka. nicholas could not
the band immediately struck up “conquest’s joyful thunder
the bald head. véra, natásha, sónya, and pétya now entered the room,
the balance of power, and the latter, evidently interested by the young
the baggage wagons had all crossed, the crush was less, and the last
the austrian general looked dissatisfied, but had no option but to reply
the austrian adjutant, he addressed bolkónski.
the attack of the sixth chasseurs secured the retreat of our right
theater, where he had been with his family and denísov. he was at once
the artillerymen were still as merry and lively as ever. twice they
the arrival of the rest of the troops who were on their way from vienna,
the arrival of a suitor agitated her, and still more so by both
the army was a great grief to me. this young man, of whom i spoke to you
the army now that it is in danger. i understand that. mon cher, it is
the army considerably. throughout the whole army and at headquarters
the army, and about whom natásha had teased her elder sister véra,
the armistice immediately and march on the enemy. inform him that the
the architect.
the archduke ferdinand and mack, and kutúzov, not considering this
the archduchy of austria, and yet other regiments freshly arriving from
“the Ápsherons must be stopped, your excellency,” cried he. but at
the appointed place.
the anteroom. “i can’t remain any longer in petersburg. tell me what
the animated hum of several conversations. at one end of the table, the
“the ammunition for the guns in position is exhausted, your
the aim of supporting one another in the path of virtue, and that is how
the aide-de-camp with a respectful politeness evidently relating to the
the aide-de-camp was sent to confirm the order which had not been
the agility with which he capered about on his light feet, márya
the affair had come to an actual duel). “you know, count, it is much
the affair, and like everyone in similar cases, did not yet believe that
the advantages are far less than in the infantry. just consider my own
the advanced army. prince andrew bolkónski came into the room with the
the adoration then common in moscow for the emperor, who was spoken of
the adjutant on duty,” said the official. “he will conduct you to
the adjutant on duty, meeting prince andrew, asked him to wait, and went
the adjutant and the minister. “away from the smell of powder, they
the address. “this letter would be of great use to you.”
the act of falling asleep. rostóv lifted his head that had sunk almost
the accurate way characteristic of him, was building a little pyramid of
the accountant with the naïve face was feeling its texture, shaking his
the abbé morio and many others had also come.
the abbé. another, of young people, was grouped round the beautiful
the 18th brumaire; was not that an imposture? it was a swindle, and not
thawing in the sunshine, the horses galloped quickly, and on both sides
that year to moreau to enter the russian service.... “wonderful!...
that year, as all his estates had been remortgaged, and so nicholas,
“that would take too long to tell,” answered the son.
“that would be fine, gentlemen!”
“that would be a fine thing!” said she. “i never wanted anything
that will decide the matter, but those who devised it,” said bilíbin
that white spot. “i expect it’s snow... that spot... a spot—une
that while napoleon’s proclamation was being read to the troops the
   that while her fingers touch the harp
that which had said: “the pávlograd hussars?”
that where the steward had shown him in the accounts that the serfs’
that were so agonizingly, incessantly pulling and pressing his arm and
that were arriving from russia. if kutúzov decided to remain at krems,
that were afloat, and so kutúzov’s suggestion of an austrian victory
that was swaying from its weight in prince andrew’s hands, but he
that was not pretty, but neither mademoiselle bourienne nor the little
that was good.
that was dispersing on the hill lay still more densely below, where they
“that was a nice snub for the little aide-de-camp,” came a voice
“that was a daniel cooper!” exclaimed márya dmítrievna, tucking up
that village, amid the smoke, was something resembling a battery, but it
that very instant a cloud of smoke spread all round, firing was heard
that tonight he was a person obliged to perform some sort of awful
that those broad-boned reddish hands with hairy wrists visible from
that they may run smoothly.
that they despaired of the possibility of checking this disorder.
that they are to cross last and to fire the bridge as i ordered; and the
that the strange lady, the aide-de-camp, and some of the servants, all
that the story about sergéy kuzmích, the laughter, and the food
that these thoughts had been suggested to prince andrew by his
that there were no political difficulties in europe and no real war,
that the question of his wife’s guilt which had been tormenting him
that the pupils’ parents wept at having to let him take their children
that the prince was in a bad humor, stood awaiting him; mademoiselle
that the ismáylov regiment was quartered for the night ten miles from
that the hussars must return quickly and fire the bridge.’”
“that the emperor will meet me and give me an order as he would to any
that the corsican monster who is destroying the peace of europe may
that’s why i have come... i am a relation. i shall not disturb him,
that’s what i did.”
“that’s what comes of a modern education,” exclaimed the visitor.
that surrounded the emperors.
that sum. “he’s begun to go a little lame on the left foreleg,” he
“that’s twue, devil take it!” shouted denísov, jumping up. “now
“that’s true!”
that stood before his plate, pierre held out one at random and drank
that’s the way they treat me! no confidence in me! ah, ordered to keep
that state of mind which makes everything seem possible, pleasant, and
“that’s so, your excellency, all they have to do is to eat a good
that’s our house,” said rostóv. “of course, it’s our house!
“that’s our battery,” said the staff officer indicating the
that sort of thing.”
that sort of man), he gave borís a pleasant smile, frowned as with
that soldier passed on, and after him came another sitting on a cart.
“that’s not the point, my dear.”
that’s not it—that’s tomorrow. oh yes! natásha... sabretache...
that smile was immediately reflected on pierre’s face.
that sleep is more important than anything,” whispered princess mary
“that’s just it, my dear fellow. you see it’s hurrah for the tsar,
“that’s just it,” interrupted dolgorúkov quickly, laughing.
“that’s just it,” answered bilíbin. “listen! the french entered
“that’s it, that’s it!” exclaimed the count, and gaily seizing
that’s it.” and with a complacent sigh he would return to the
“that’s how we used to dance in our time, ma chère,” said the
that showed that his father’s foibles did not prevent his son from
that she winced and uttered a cry.
that she had not intended her flight to bring her so far. behind her in
“that’s for them all,” he said to the officer who came up.
“that’s fine,” said he.
“that’s capital; of course she’ll forget her childish promises
“that’s better, count,” said the staff captain, beginning to
“that’s a miwacle.”
that same night, rostóv was with a platoon on skirmishing duty in front
that same night, having taken leave of the minister of war, bolkónski
that same evening there was to be one of the balls that iogel (the
that same evening there was an animated discussion among the
that same day a council of war had been held in which all the members of
“that’s all right. no one thinks you a coward, but that’s not the
“that’s a good thing, but don’t move from prince vasíli’s. it
“that’s a fine death!” said napoleon as he gazed at bolkónski.
“that’s admirable!” he shouted. “he will take you with your
     * “that russian army which has been brought from the ends of
that remained uninjured out of the four, they began moving down the hill
that provisions are supplied and the routes indicated,” said bilíbin,
that princess mary in this guise looked very plain, worse than usual,
that pierre could no longer see the reddish-yellow face with its gray
that peculiar expression of polite weariness which plainly says, “if
“that passion which more than all others caused you to waver on the
that passionate animal feeling which was apt to master him with great
that on receiving news of the defeat some would simply not believe it,
that one also passed. then followed a cart unlike any that had gone
that not even a continuity of most brilliant successes would secure
that never does any harm,” thought anatole.
that negotiations for peace were already proceeding, and that he
that more irritating news than yours could not have been conceived.
that month and a half while he felt himself drawn nearer and nearer to
that moment pierre felt that hélène not only could, but must, be his
that moment his home life, jokes with pétya, talks with sónya, duets
that moment been wounded and his face showed fear rather than suffering.
that moment a third enemy rises before us—namely the orthodox russian
that moment after supper at prince vasíli’s, when he spoke those
that makes me unhappy. but even in this i can see lately a shade of
“that letter was written, though it was not sent, and the emperor knew
that led to his own apartments.
that kutúzov’s upper lip twitched unnaturally as he said the
that?... kindly do as you are ordered.”
that i would give my life twice over...” he looked at the countess,
that i was ungrateful, and that mamma would never allow him to marry
that it would be a bad thing), but he knew it would happen.
that it was not she but he was so unusually beautiful, and that that was
that it was impossible to stop them, spurred his horse and rode to the
that it seemed to be made of one piece with her head and covered with
that it might not occur to her to speak of his share in the affair of
that it is we who lost the battle of pultúsk. in short, we retreat
that it is more dangerous to run away than to advance, but that russian
that is, you want to raise him” (pointing to a peasant who passed by
“that is, with ilyá rostóv who married nataly shinshiná,” said
“that is why i beg to be sent to that detachment,” he said.
“that is what we shall see! that is what we shall see!” he added
“that is what i ask you. no one, not even bonaparte, knows why.”
that is the only reality in the world, all else is folly. it is the one
that is still too fresh. ah, dear friend, you are happy not to know
“that is probably the work of vinesse,” said pierre, mentioning
that is not yet ready.
“that is no business of mine,” he thought. he had not ridden many
“that is just why i do not begin, sire,” said kutúzov in a
“that is enough for me,” said sónya, blushing.
“that is doubtful,” said prince andrew. “monsieur le vicomte quite
“that is all nonsense.” prince andrew again interrupted him, “let
that in this world there is neither honor nor justice. in this world one
that instant the trooper nikítenko, who was galloping ahead, shot away
that in spite of all the unpleasantness he had to endure he would still
that insignificant society people might carry them from drawing room to
that imprint of newness found in the households of the newly married.
that i’m a sharper, so i advise you to be careful.”
that—if you consider yourself bound by your promise—it will seem as
that if he asked on behalf of all who begged of him, he would soon be
that i do not like him.”
that i am saying!” thought a diplomatist, glancing at the happy faces
that his remarks were too enthusiastic and emphatic for the occasion and
that his heart stood still. his hand trembled as he gave his horse into
that he would have to answer it justly, and justice clashed not only
that he was dangerously wounded.
that he was at the front and in the power of a man toward whom he now
that he too seemed ashamed of the hussar of the line.
that hesitation lasted only an instant. the tsar’s foot, in the narrow
that he should do the same. the rider, whose figure seemed familiar
“that here lives count cyril vladímirovich bezúkhov so rich, all
that he ought to avoid her and go away, pierre, despite that decision,
that he is probably tired of them,” said another officer.
that he had composed in his imagination could he now recall. those
that he fell off his horse and sprained his arm and then ran as hard as
that he decided to go. the thought immediately occurred to him that his
that he could not believe his eyes. “who are they? why are they
that, hearing he was in a bad humor, she had decided not to appear.
that had tormented him all dinnertime rose and took possession of him.
that had placed the vienna bridge in the hands of the french without
that had already once been given in detail: “and tell the hussars
that had advanced beyond the village went back; but as though in revenge
that god who has been sewn into this amulet by mary! there is nothing
that friendship?” remarked the count in an inquiring tone.
that for an instant). why should he not love her now, and even marry
that fat one in spectacles” (that was how pétya described his
that explained their teaching by hieroglyphics. a hieroglyph,” said
that everything was splendid. “just fancy: wants to be an hussar.
that everything done by necessity, by accident, or by the will of
that, even more than in moscow, he felt a sense of bewilderment, bustle,
that evening to bid a last farewell to the celebrated grandee of
that evening, proud of dólokhov’s proposal, her refusal, and her
that end and when did this new, terrible state of things begin? what
that dread of beaten tracks, and wish to express itself in a manner
that dreadful abyss, pierre said to himself: “what am i doing? i need
“that dólokhov was my lover,” she said in french with her coarse
that divine purity and devotion i look for in women. if i found such a
that dinner was ready! the door opened, and from the dining room came
that day nicholas rostóv received a letter from borís, telling him
that day, but had heard about them from an infantry officer. “they
that could save the army, and how he alone would be entrusted with the
that column himself. when he had reached the village of pratzen he
that came upon him at hollabrünn, which was clearly impossible. but
that both her slender bare arms clasped him above his neck, and, tossing
that between the person they so address and themselves there are some
that army: a feeling of self-forgetfulness, a proud consciousness of
that anna mikháylovna whom i would not take for a housemaid... the
that all europe is powerless before him.... and i don’t believe a
that afternoon. she felt that as she brought with her the person the
that affair for me and i shall always be your most devoted slave-slafe
“that abbé is very interesting but he does not see the thing in the
that.
than with politics,” said he in his quiet ironical tone. “i know
than the other; the serfs everywhere seemed thriving and touchingly
than once. “you know it won’t do to leave your posts like this.
“thank you; you saved me, my dear fellow!” said túshin.
thank you! you must have a rest. be at the levee tomorrow after the
thank you with my whole heart.” to rostóv every word sounded like a
“thank you very much, prince,” answered one of the officers, pleased
“thank you very much, i will go on alone,” said prince andrew,
“thank you, my dear.” she kissed him on the forehead and sat down
thanks to princess lise’s voice and little downy lip that lifted over
thanks to anna mikháylovna’s efforts, his own tastes, and the
“thank god!” said the voice. “and father?”
“thank god!” said sónya, crossing herself. “but perhaps she
“thank god!” said prince vasíli. “my wife has told me
“thank god,” said his son smiling.
“thank god!”
thanked,” thought the overseer, “the storm has blown over!”
thanked him for his love. his looks thanked her for offering him his
than five hundred paces from where kutúzov was standing, a dense french
than a yard above the glow of the charcoal. flakes of falling snow were
than anything else showed pierre her superiority. she was right in
than a man who has been looking at a tuft of steppe grass through the
than a hundred cannon were already in the hands of the french.
tête-de-pont. * they spin him a thousand gasconades, saying that
terribly true. i pity prince vasíli but am still more sorry for pierre.
terrible voice that the whole house heard it with horror. god knows what
terrible pain of being lifted onto the stretcher, the jolting while
terrible news from her till after her confinement, which was expected
terrible dragon, a lady distinguished not for wealth or rank, but for
terrible dividing line of uncertainty and fear—resembling the line
terrible, and now he has this authority of a commander in chief of
terrible and holy secrets of providence while we remain in this flesh
ten minutes later lavrúshka brought the coffee. “he’s coming!”
ten minutes. and that it will not be too dull, here is the dear count
tenderly sad voice, she said:
tenacious endurance and vigor of hardy old age. after a few more turns
temptation she slipped quietly behind one of the columns. in the midst
temper made him specially annoyed at prince vasíli’s visit, he was
temper because prince vasíli was coming, or whether his being in a bad
telyánin was sitting in the same indolent pose in which rostóv had
telyánin, taking up his cap and moving toward a small empty room. “we
telyánin’s orderly. “has something happened?” he added, surprised
telyánin, and he went out to give the order.
telyánin.
telyánin.
tell you for the tenth time that if the letter to the emperor and the
tell the truth.
“tell these devils, these fiends, to let me pass!” shouted denísov
“tell them to give me a seat, for god’s sake!”
tell the little countess!”
“tell me, when did the battle begin?” he asked hurriedly.
“tell me, my dear,” said she to natásha, “is mimi a relation of
tell me,” he added with studied carelessness as if it had only just
“tell me about that!” he said.
telling me what forces are being collected against him! while you and i
telling him.
telling her things. she has had a dream and is frightened.”
tell everything just as it happened, but imperceptibly, involuntarily,
“tell bezúkhov to come. i’ll put his name down. is his wife with
teeth, he began with stubby fingers of both hands to ruffle up his thick
teatime she would prepare the countess, and after tea, with god’s
tears.”
tears.
teach you to dress the men in fancy coats for a parade.... eh...?”
teacher’s fault or the pupil’s, this same thing happened every day:
tea?” asked his valet.
taste. and she had a lady’s maid, also big. she said....”
task pierre had to face was one for which he had very little aptitude or
tangled black hair.
talk to her. what a darling sónya is!” he added with a smile.
talks sense, but to temporize and wait for something now when bonaparte
talking too loudly and vehemently with the abbé, so she hurried to the
talking. seeing them pass, prince vasíli drew back with obvious
talking of the schön grabern affair? were you there?”
talking about me? let us talk about you,” he added after a silence,
talked of peace but did not believe in its possibility; others talked
talk, but i don’t want to,” he seemed to say. besides this, in his
taking up a pack he prepared to deal. rostóv submissively unbent the
taking the colonel’s outburst as a challenge to his courage, the
taking out what she was holding inside it, as if what she held were
taking offense, but you don’t mind disgracing the whole regiment!”
taking no notice of his arrival. a wax candle stood at each side of the
taking leave of anna pávlovna. “it is settled,” she added in a low
taking his partner with him. he glided silently on one foot half across
taking him by the hand led him forward. the hairs tied in the knot hurt
taking charges from their pouches, while others were firing, though who
taking a letter addressed in a woman’s hand from a bag hanging above
taking a glass from the table he went up to pierre.
taking advantage of it!”
“take this road, your honor, that way you will be killed at once!” a
“take this and deliver it,” said he to his adjutant, handing him the
take these away. put this on the seat and this to the right.”
take the money,” and he threw the purse to him and ran out of the inn.
takes place at such moments.
take part in receiving the visitors. the count met the guests and saw
taken up their position and seeing troops before them, thought they were
taken off his eyes and, by the faint light of the burning spirit,
taken, it was not his fault but the corporal’s who had sent him to
taken from the prisoner.
taken and i hope it will not be, for it is mined and orders have been
taken, and all this for the beaux yeux * of his sardinian majesty. and
taken advice; but no, you go and blurt it all straight out before the
taken a ballroom in bezúkhov’s house, and the ball, as everyone said,
take me too? who are these men?” thought rostóv, scarcely believing
“take it right out, or they’ll think i’m holding on,” said
“take it if you like,” said the officer, giving the girl an apple.
take it...” he threw it on the table. “i have an old father and
take his eyes off her and beat time with his saber in a way that clearly
take her for her connections and wealth. are there no women living
“take a stick between your legs, that’ll suit you for a horse!”
take a seat beside her.
“take a glass of boiled water and put a pinch of cream of tartar,”
tail extended, bedouin, as if also conscious of the emperor’s eye
“tafa-lafa! but what he’s jabbering no one can make out,” said a
tache,” he thought. “there now... it’s not a tache... natásha...
table. “what are you thumping the table for?” she demanded of the
table that he had pushed away. “but... in short, the fact is... you
table seemed to feel this, and they forgot their duties as they looked
tables and the same chandelier with a cover over it; but someone had
table on a corner of which he smilingly and absent-mindedly fixed his
table linen, he would call dmítri vasílevich, a man of good family and
table. denísov was sitting there scratching with his pen on a sheet of
table began to watch her hands arranging the cards. from the dancing
table and placed on it his small leather-gloved hands.
table and becoming more animated and talking more rapidly: “what if
table, a child’s table, and the little chair on which prince andrew
table.
sympathize with him; if i seem sad and out of spirits myself, he will
symmetrically on his knees in the naïve attitude of an egyptian statue,
symmetrically and above all freely, and in front of them two men—the
swords, meaning them to pierce it. but the swords were drawn back from
sword of frederick the great.
swinging their arms and keeping time spontaneously, marched with long
sweet wine, my dear, now that the time has come for these young ones to
sweet, so good-natured, and her position now is a very hard one.”
sweetly. it was the third time that day that, with an ecstatic and
sweetest comforts to my poor heart, which has already suffered so much.
sweeter, and better than the feelings which the beautiful eyes of a
sways the world. think this over and i will come to you again.”
sway and scatters its last snows and storms with desperate fury. a relay
swarmed with well-provisioned sutlers and austrian jews offering
swallowing his r’s, and pronouncing the latin words with a french
suvórov’s wars. send it to the academy. here are some jottings for
suvórov’s time, now passing so gallantly before the emperors, that he
suvórov. moreover, paying such honor to bagratión was the best way of
suvórov-like, in a kibítka, and is received with acclamations of joy
suvórov giving his saber to bagratión in italy, and the recollection
survive....”
surveying the guests, and leisurely arranged her wide sleeves as if
surroundings unable to find their own regiments. in this way the action
surroundings, and from her smiling lips flowed sounds which anyone may
“surrounded! cut off? we’re lost!” shouted the fugitives.
surrender of most of the prussian fortresses had been received, when our
surrendered but had beaten the french.
surprise, the french had thrown down their muskets and run. dólokhov,
surprised pierre.
surprised by what he saw. hoping to enter on an entirely new life quite
surprise.”
“surely he will leave something to borís,” said the countess.
suppressed smile brightening both their faces, a smile that had nothing
suppose that i should look severely on your affection for that young
supposed that the russian guards, abroad, was quite a definite address,
supposed, share the general russian antipathy to the austrians which was
supposed, must have risen to fifteen thousand. in reality it already
support of his battery all was forgotten. prince andrew listened
supported him under the arms. there was a gurgle in his throat and he
“supper, it’s time for supper! and here are the gypsies!”
superstition, and only two virtues—activity and intelligence. he
superior to napoleon’s, were concentrated in one place, the troops
superior.
superfluous was hanging on his benumbed left arm. the wrist felt as if
sun. how beautiful the sky looked; how blue, how calm, and how deep!
sumptuous but cold apartments known to pierre only from the front
suite who had mimicked the regimental commander, fell back from the
suite and said in french:
suite, and in the smoke that suddenly surrounded the gun they could see
suite.
suggestion and pressed his lips to the large boned, fleshy hand. neither
suggested to him a point of view which gave him a right to despise
suggested to him a blow from something. he looked at prince vasíli
suggested that she had resolved to endure her troubles uncomplainingly
sufficiently weakened to be successfully attacked. but still he did not
sufficient ground for this affair, or for blood to be shed over it....
sufferings. what a heart! how like him it is! and how he has remembered
suffering?” suggested another voice. prince andrew, however, did not
suffering, but what he wanted to do was too terrible.
suffering, and the nearness of death aroused in him. looking into
suffer for it.”
suddenness and prompt him to the coarsest and most reckless actions.
suddenly transformed. he put on the air of a subordinate who obeys
suddenly the angry, squirrel-like expression of the princess’ pretty
suddenly she jumped up onto a tub to be higher than he, embraced him so
suddenly replied the irate colonel. “if you vere in the cavalry...”
suddenly prince hippolyte started up making signs to everyone to attend,
suddenly prince bolkónski frowned.
suddenly heard a sound new to him, of something swiftly approaching...
suddenly from the next room were heard the footsteps of boys and girls
suddenly dólokhov made a backward movement with his spine, and his arm
suddenly changed to one of horror. the french were supposed to be a
suddenly came to and, lifting his head with an effort, took rostóv, who
suddenly appeared, looming huge as an elephant.
suddenly appeared in the fog, there was a flash, followed by a report,
suddenly a gust of wind beat violently against the casement of the
suddenly.
such things about bonaparte, but understanding that he was wanted as
such silence and an anxiety to find something to say, the effect is
such love as sónya was speaking of. but natásha had not yet felt
such gratefully religious ones, with offerings of icons and the bread
such bad health, and now this vexation about his son is enough to kill
such as might call for his rapidity of perception and decision.
such a small, insignificant creature compared with what was passing now
such a plan in which the enemy’s position was assumed to be known,
such an unfortunate and charming woman! don’t mention him before
such a fright! oh, what a pig i am!” he repeated, flushing suddenly.
such a friend that i burned my arm for her sake. look here!”
success reached kutúzov’s cheerless staff with the galloping advent
successfully cannonading the french, our artillerymen only noticed this
success and at the inability of others to understand these things.
success.”
succeeds. he sat motionless, looking at the heights visible above
succeeded!’ the prussian generals pride themselves on being polite to
succeeded in setting two loquacious talkers at one another.
succeeded in forestalling the french he was to delay them as long as
subtleties here beyond my feeble intelligence, but i can’t make it
subsiding under the delightful interest of his own story, “is that the
subscribed the same amount as the others.
subordinate commanders was done, if not by his direct command, at least
subordinate by me.
submitted herself to mademoiselle bourienne and lise. both these women
submit my report, with the information that if the army remains in its
submit from habit, and she said: “i wish only to do your will, but if
submissive general.
subject under discussion than those they are talking with.
subject, and was thus at the duc’s mercy. the latter spared him, and
style, wearing an antique coat and powdered hair; and when prince andrew
stupidest remarks came out clever and apt. now everything pierre said
stumbled over it. several of those present laughed.
stumbled on him in the fog, hearing no encouraging word from their
study, the old prince went for his walk as usual next morning, but he
study, on the blue sofa, the confidential sofa? why cannot i now, as
study a little before noon in his silk dressing gown and found his head
study.
struggle to conquer that fear, all his dreams of distinguishing himself
struggles of a certain emilie de mansfeld. “and why did she resist
struggle, but with naïve and lighthearted gaiety.
struck two and another with a shrill tone joined in from the drawing
struck the ground in front of them.
struck him by her beauty on the preceding day. today, when he had caught
strong, healthy, cheerful, and excited, and are surrounded by other such
stronger flow of love for his sovereign. he longed to show that love in
stroked the animal. it was plain that he did not quite grasp where he
stroke, came up to the prince, bowing his bald head resignedly before
stripes on their bodies heal, and they are happy as before. but it is
striking his horse with his long muscular legs as if it were to blame
striking him regularly on his bare back. the man shrieked unnaturally.
striking chords with his short fingers, his legs thrown back and his
striking a blow!”
strictly to obey. you said the bridge would be burned, but who would it
(strictly speaking, daniel cooper was one figure of the anglaise.)
stretching himself he rose from the table. “one does get tired sitting
“stretchers!” shouted someone behind him.
stretchers came into view before rostóv. and the fear of death and of
stretched along the highroad in the midst of a young copse in which were
streets of brünn and found himself surrounded by high buildings, the
streamed out of a side street.
strayed off the track into the snow, pierre looked down at his feet,
strayed from under her friend’s plaits.
straw covered street and turned into the wide courtyard of count cyril
strategic position where the operations would take place was familiar in
strange, unknown, and dangerous places he reaches, just as a sailor is
stranger, yet nearer to him through the brotherhood of man. with bated
strangers and unable to send news of himself. the gazettes from which
stranger, looking deeper and deeper into pierre’s eyes. “and in
stranger.
strangely softened but agitated expression on his face. he came up the
strange and ridiculous to meet objections from russian generals and to
strains of daniel cooper (somewhat resembling those of a merry peasant
straight on napoleon, he was silent.... so insignificant at that moment
straight! it’s well god had mercy on us. and what was it for? who
straight into his son’s face with keen eyes which seemed to see
stouter!...”
story to him, her seducer. and now he, a real russian prince, had
story of the misfortunes of some mary víktorovna or other. at the
stories or telling them, but followed every movement of rostóv’s
stories of the grand duke’s quick temper he related with gusto how in
stories of his kindness and irascibility. berg, as usual, kept silent
“stop those wretches!” gasped kutúzov to the regimental commander,
“stop this jesting,” he said.
“stop them!” he shouted, and at the same moment, probably realizing
stopping occasionally at a corner to make menacing gestures at the wall,
stopping in front of the pávlograds, the tsar said something in french
stopped the company.” dólokhov breathed heavily from weariness and
stopped him. he turned his horse and galloped off.
stopped at a solitary, deserted house that had probably once been an
stopped and glanced inquiringly over his spectacles at his guide. anna
“stop jesting,” said prince andrew sadly and seriously. this news
stood with the candle. yes, it was he, pale, thin, with a changed and
stood with his marshals around him, it was quite light. above him was
stood waiting by the door.
stood, met, and separated, some in uniform and some in evening dress,
stood cold and silent, as if quite regardless of who had come to it.
stood before a looking glass and brushed the hair on his temples
stood at every door anxiously noting visitors’ every movement in order
stood at a window with dólokhov, whose acquaintance he had lately
stones of the pavement.
stone, hundreds of riders composing the suites moved carelessly but
stomach with an already stiffened arm flung wide.
stir around him, then the people resumed their places and the service
stir, and a footman who had run in announced, with a frightened face:
stir. an adjutant, dismounting, lifted the soldier under the arms to
stint yourself, we’ll settle afterwards,” he added, turning to
stimulating effect on him. “vive l’empereur! l’empereur!” he now
still why didn’t you capture him? so don’t be surprised if not only
still when she’s fifty.”
still was not in time to avoid them.
“still the same. wait, for heaven’s sake. karl ivánich always says
“still the same,” she said to her husband.
“still the same; but what can you expect, this noise...” said the
still there?”
still the cannon balls continued regularly to whistle and flop onto the
still sound, yellowish teeth.
still smiling, she gracefully moved away, turning and glancing at her
still quite a young lady, before her nose was broken; how she had aged
still no one moved. the troops of the left flank, infantry and hussars
still looking silently at her brother and her beautiful eyes were full
still less did he think of injuring anyone for his own advantage. he
still, i will take borís and go to see him at once, and i shall speak
still it was terrible, and she could not help thinking of it. she was
still in the same place, his stout body resting heavily in the saddle
still in the drawing room, drew a chair toward him or her, and jauntily
still in course of construction. round the house was a garden newly laid
still. “if it were a man whose existence thou didst doubt i could
still he was lifted and laid on the stretcher.
still gazed at the spot where pierre’s face had been before he sat
still five men between him and dólokhov with his bluish-gray uniform.
still feeling his eyes gazing at her.
still farther ahead a dark line which he could not see distinctly but
“still, don’t ruin yourself!” said dólokhov with a side glance at
“still aching?” túshin asked rostóv in a whisper.
steward there, who, bowing respectfully, looked into his face and at
steward, and again began giving orders. a light footstep and the
stern, threatening, inaccessible, and intangible line which separates
stern, shrewd, and penetrating expression of that look struck pierre. he
sternly with a threatening and forbidding movement of her head.
stern eyes on his son.
stern but handsome face really joined in the dance. what was expressed
stern and solemn train of thought that weakness from loss of blood,
step that for you all is ended, all is closed except the drawing
steps. when at last, smartly whirling his partner round in front of her
steps should be taken to liberate the serfs, which the steward met by
steps. “o god,” he said with tears in his eyes, “how could you do
steps, her workbag on her arm, and gaily spreading out her dress sat
steps down the line. he was evidently pleased at his own display of
steps. behind the company the sound of wheels, the creaking of springs,
steps behind him holding two horses by their bridles. each time prince
steps, and again stopped.
steps.
stepping into the deep snow. he held the pistol in his right hand at
“stepping flat on his heels—we know what that means....”
stepped to the middle of the room and stood still.
stepped softly over the carpet and went out into the waiting room.
stepped away from the man and looked round inquiringly at the adjutant
step could be heard. on their left flank, nearest to bagratión, marched
step; a soldier who had fallen behind, his face showing alarm at his
steadily and ceaselessly on all sides. with the exception of the aunt,
staying the whole evening, i hope?”
stayed his hand. the sergeant, who was evidently wiser than his general,
station or a doctor for the cadet, and sat down by a bonfire the
stationed on the pratzen heights.
station, but compared to the thoughts that now occupied him it was a
station), and again embraced his sister.
stating them to the emperor francis. he vividly imagined the casual
state of the political thermometer of legitimate petersburg court
state.”
*** start of this project gutenberg ebook war and peace ***
start my apprenticeship as old maid.”
starting from their sockets to watch their chief. on reaching the
started,” thought prince andrew, watching his old acquaintance with
stars on his breast. he seemed to have grown thinner since the morning;
starry night was followed by a bright cheerful morning. the snow was
stand the sight of these unfortunates.
stand made at krems and the victory over mortier raised the spirits of
standing up, on which lay an open exercise book, and the lathe with
standing together out of range of the shots, watching, now the small
standing motionless; then he came to the region occupied by uvárov’s
standard in hand, i shall go forward and break whatever is in front of
stake of twenty rubles.
stairs and up another, to pierre’s rooms.
stairs and embraced his sister.
stages of his journey.
staff were not far off, in the village the vehicles were going to.
staff officer smiled.) “kindly return to your posts, gentlemen, all of
staff officer, and at zherkóv, and he frowned.
staff officer.
staff captain’s question by a disapproving shake of his head.
staff?”
staff...”
s— s— get the same distinction?”
squatting on his heels in front of a clerk. the clerk, with cuffs turned
squadron. the day was bright and sunny after a sharp night frost, and
squadron, that in which rostóv was serving under denísov, to return to
squadron’s officers in denísov’s quarters.
squadron may be recommended for honors and he may get a ribbon. our
squadron in which nicholas rostóv served as a cadet was quartered in
squadron commander.
squadron. all were looking at the enemy in front and at the squadron
spring up with more energy and again play with her cousin as soon as
springing to him, putting her arms round him, and kissing him. this
spread out his arms with a choleric gesture.
spread out her arms to show her short-waisted, lace-trimmed, dainty gray
spreading out his legs and putting his hands on his knees with the air
spread by the fact that the emperor’s carriage had really galloped
spread apart, he began explaining his reasons for thinking the abbé’s
sprang out before the sleigh stopped, and ran into the hall. the house
spot” (he stooped and pointed to the sloping ledge outside the window)
spoke to the taciturn michael ivánovich more often than to anyone else.
spoke smilingly and listened with a laugh.
spoke particularly slowly, as if to impress the fact that there was no
spoken to the gentleman ranker, he addressed him with the cordiality of
spoke in abrupt sentences. “the whole company can bear witness. i beg
spoke as if his sole aim were to put a given number of questions—the
spoil her, but really that seems the best plan. with her elder sister i
“splendid! what a horse he will be!” he thought with a smile, and
splendid soldiers. besides he began by attacking germans. and only
splendidly.”
splendid house!”
“splendid! excellent!” exclaimed natásha. “another verse,” she
splendid! and i am sitting here ill, as you see.”
splashing with blood those near them.
spite of his money. they wanted to introduce him to me, but i quite
spite of his evident wish to do so he could not give them a joyous
spirit will not and cannot understand the emperor alexander’s
spiritual needs, while it seems to me that animal happiness is the only
spirited impression.
spent, and almost every year he was obliged to borrow. besides this the
spend time in reading what is unintelligible and can therefore bear
speeches were intended for quite other conditions, they were for the
spectacles unable to understand what they wanted or how they could go on
spectacles and white dressing gown, in which he received no one but his
spectacles.
spectacle of his power over these three women. besides that, he was
specially choice delicacy a piece of meat that no one who had seen it in
specially amiable mood that day.
special force. no matter what he thought about, he always returned to
speak, so now she could not believe that that little creature could be
speak in the tone of decided refusal and disagreement in which he had
speaking very gently.
speaking to an austrian general. prince andrew, who was a little behind
speaking quickly with a harsh german accent, looking to both sides and
speaking playfully of a matter that evidently distressed him.
speaking of the position of prussia, anna pávlovna very naturally asked
speaking of him, my dear sir. of what, of whom, are we speaking? whom
speaking of berg as her “intended.” the count sat between them and
speaking of a collection of snuffboxes that had belonged to pierre’s
speaking french. he opened his eyes. above him again was the same lofty
speaking as if he were saying something which had long since been agreed
speaking and evidently not thinking about her at all. anatole was not
speak—he turned back, rapidly mounted the stairs again with the
sparkling black eyes, and black tousled mustache and hair. he wore an
spadefuls of red clay were continually being thrown up from behind the
“so you think he is powerless?” said langeron.
so young, and burdened with such riches—to what temptations he will be
“so you have never noticed before how beautiful i am?” hélène
“so you are still at that silly business!” quickly closed his eye
“so you are really going to the war, andrew?” she said sighing.
“so you are not afraid to play with me?” repeated dólokhov, and as
“soyez tranquille, lise, you will always be prettier than anyone
so widely from a private.
so well how to arrange a feast on an open-handed, hospitable scale,
“so we are to have visitors, mon prince?” remarked mademoiselle
sount ze retreat!”
sounds very fast: “kari, mala, tafa, safi, muter, kaská,” he said,
sound of wheels and footsteps heard by the outposts during the night,
sound of these voices, the inattentive way kozlóvski looked at him, the
sound of the hoofs of the approaching cavalcade, but because as he drew
sound of that sentence: “contez nous çela, vicomte.”
sound of officers’ voices in eager conversation.
sound of kissing. when prince andrew went in the two princesses, who
sound of footsteps.
sound of artillery fire near by. having forced his way out of the crowd
sounding, even the connoisseurs said nothing, but only delighted in
sounded still more firm and resolute.
sounded. several of our men fell, among them the round-faced officer
sounded much like irony. but kutúzov went on blandly smiling with the
sounded louder and calmer, the stretchers disappeared from sight.
sounded far away. here everyone clearly saw and said that the battle
sounded and you’ll be in a pretty position without your boots!” (the
soul to see such men as the old count and his worthy son,” said she.
soul to believe and he did believe, and felt a joyful sense of comfort,
soul: courage, generosity, morality, love of mankind, and especially
soul and his face.
so to me? what have i done to you? you are going to the war and have no
“so they will,” said nesvítski. “no, but what i should like,”
so the worse the condition it was in, the better pleased the commander
so the swishing sound of the strokes, and the desperate but unnatural
“so there’s nothing?”
“so the attack is definitely resolved on?” asked bolkónski.
so that the maid could hardly get her hair plaited, and she was
“so that’s what they hit with?” asked the accountant. “how
“so that’s what i’m sorry for—human dignity, peace of mind,
      * so that squares matters.
so that she felt herself surrounded on all sides by the acrid scent of
so that his mouth, the most striking feature of his face, was clearly
so terrible to the soldiers, despite his furious purple countenance
so strong that he could lift the back of the carriage from behind, sat
so strange that one could not take it in. but then the expression of
so softly that the rhetor did not hear him and asked him what he was
sorts, and russian and austrian soldiers of all arms, some wounded and
sort—(le sort de l’armée d’ulm).” * he remembered these words
sorrow, sadness, or self-reproach, that she purposely deceived herself
sorrowful, and all-forgiving expression on her face, stood by the door
so rapid that they could hardly be his mother’s.
sophie, the rosy, laughter-loving, youngest princess with the mole,
sophie—i can’t repeat them—that it made the count quite ill and he
“sophie,” he began, timidly at first and then more and more
soothe him.
“só-o-onya! look here! how can you torture me and yourself like that,
so on. then a place was assigned to pierre, he was shown the signs of
sooner or later he would step across it, but an incomprehensible terror
sooner?”
soon as the conversation concerned himself he would begin to talk
soon as he had seen a visitor off he returned to one of those who were
soon after this there came into the dark chamber to fetch pierre, not
soon after prince bagratión had left him, túshin had succeeded in
soon after prince andrew’s return the old prince made over to him a
soon after his admission to the masonic brotherhood, pierre went to the
sónya, whom he loved and thought of just the same as ever.” when she
“sónya, what is the matter with you? how can you?” said he, running
“sónya! what is it? what is the matter?... oo... oo... oo...!” and
“sónya! what is anyone in the world to me? you alone are
sónya was sitting at the clavichord, playing the prelude to
sónya was more tender and devoted to him than ever. it was as if she
sónya trembled all over and blushed to her ears and behind them and
sónya too, all rosy red, clung to his arm and, radiant with bliss,
sónya struck the first chord of the prelude.
sónya’s thin little shoulders, natásha’s eyes and laughter,
sónya’s refusal and felt uncomfortable at the thought of how they
sónya smiled.
sónya smiled.
sónya’s joint ages. rostóv, leaning his head on both hands, sat at
“sónya,” she suddenly exclaimed, as if she had guessed the true
sónya, shaking off some down which clung to her and tucking away the
sónya sat up. the little kitten brightened, its eyes shone, and it
sónya, natásha, pétya, anna mikháylovna, véra, and the old count
sónya interrupted him.
“sónya, don’t believe her, darling! don’t believe her! do you
sónya did not pull it away, and left off crying. natásha, not stirring
sónya could not continue, and again hid her face in her hands and in
sónya became thoughtful. the question of how to write to nicholas, and
sónya and fat little pétya doubled up with laughter.
sónya and dólokhov before dinner, and with the kindly sensitiveness
sónya again interrupted. she gave him an imploring, frightened look.
son’s when speaking to him that afternoon, “believe me i suffer no
son; sónya, the count’s fifteen-year-old niece, and little pétya,
son, sat at the table writing. he glanced round.
son’s arrival: he gave orders to admit him to his apartments while
son’s affair hushed up, but even he was ordered out of petersburg.”
son or kinsman.”
son made no rejoinder, but it was evident that whatever arguments were
son, ilyá? only fancy, i didn’t know you at first. do you remember
song, arousing an involuntary sensation of courage and cheerfulness.
song.
son.”
son.
son.
so my conscience was at ease. i came forward....” (berg stood up and
“so much the better! i shall see it close,” he thought.
some wooded hills were discernible, and it was there the enemy probably
somewhere under her heart would ever cry, suck her breast, and begin to
somewhere nearer the sun.”
somewhere beyond them. the hussars did not look round, but at the sound
somewhere below his throat rushed to his face and eyes. he could not
some way and knowing that this was impossible was ready to cry. the tsar
some twenty men of his suite. these gentlemen talked among themselves
some time to get the wedding ring off his fat finger. when that had been
sometimes spend a whole night at his writing table. he worked well
sometimes on his way back from the anteroom he would pass through the
sometimes like a chip of wood whirling in the river, an hussar on foot,
sometimes four abreast. from all sides, behind and before, as far as ear
something toward it and you cannot persuade me that it was not a good
something to him in french in an undertone and then went up to a small
something to drink?”
something that was evidently wrong and that he ought not to do. but at
something terrible and monstrous rising in his soul and turned quickly
something striking and took part in a conversation only when that was
“something special is always said in such cases,” he thought, but
something loudly to a comrade farther back. rostóv paused. “no,
something like qualms of conscience. she had reminded him of what was
something large, brilliant, and handsome moving toward her as she
something i have received from the chancellor. i asked him for you, and
something i cannot inflict on others,” said prince andrew, growing
something disconcerting to himself.
something, but dared not.... no, it was i who dared not. but that’s
something big, that splashed into the water.
something as she whispered:
something and went away. it seemed to pierre that even the prince was
something.”
something.”
some swarthy men and women were really entering from the cold outside
some sort were moving about, in front and behind moved lines of troops;
some reason she called it urope as if that were a specially refined
some question—“most likely he is asking at what o’clock they
someone to fire at.
someone rich and distinguée, and it is on you that his relations’
someone. (prince bagratión did not ask about the guns on the left
someone mentioned that captain túshin was bivouacking close to the
some of the topics at first lightly touched on: their past life, plans
some of the nearest relatives had not yet left. they were sitting in
some not. this whole mass droned and jostled in confusion under the
some men who, carrying pails, came running downstairs, their boots
some in the sitting room, some in the library.
some inspection business,” remarked the visitor.
“some herb vodka? certainly!” said túshin. “but still, to
some great change had come over him that day. he was silent all through
some flash as of an electric spark shot from telyánin’s eyes to
someday i will tell you about our parting and all that was said then.
some concessions. continuing to represent the liberation of the serfs
some approaching achievement, and some in course of disintegration. he
some!”
so many years moravians in shaggy caps and blue jackets had peacefully
so long waited, presents itself to him at last. he firmly and clearly
so long,” he added.
solemn interest and silent approval. the aunt spoke to each of them in
solemn affair. every general and every soldier was conscious of his own
soldier with the harsh voice, and it was that affair and this soldier
soldier, with his clear blue eyes, stepped forward from the ranks, went
soldier with a wagon, who was pressing onto the infantrymen who were
soldier three gold pieces.
soldiers who were seizing the artillery horses and turning the guns
soldiers. “where are you shoving to? devil take you! can’t you wait?
soldiers to change into their greatcoats. the company commanders ran off
soldiers! the russian army is advancing against you to avenge the
soldiers. the company marched on gaily. the soldiers’ voices could be
soldiers, straining their lungs, shouted “hurrah!”
soldiers running in confused crowds across his path.
soldiers ran from the fires, thrust their pipes into their boots, their
soldiers passed in a semicircle round something where the ball had
soldiers only need to be restrained and held back! on all sides, new and
soldiers, officers, and generals were heroes. but the hero of heroes was
soldiers, munching biscuit and beating a tattoo with their feet to
soldiers, loudly demanding bread, meat, biscuits, fodder, and whatnot!
soldiers lifted the canteen lids to their lips with reverential faces,
soldier shouted to him. “they’d kill you there!”
soldiers held him while two others were flourishing their switches and
soldiers had kindled on the road. rostóv, too, dragged himself to the
soldiers forming the picket line, like showmen exhibiting a curiosity,
soldiers’ boots. more than half the men’s boots were in holes. but
soldiers’ bonfires and with his long gray mustache, his white chest
soldiers and officers of various regiments, they saw on their left some
soldiers, after a twenty-mile march, were kept mending and cleaning all
soldier of forty—looked sternly at the singers and screwed up his
soldier, mimicking the general who had ridden away. “i’d shoot them,
soldier. “i’ll teach you to push on!... back!”
soldier at the front, gave the command “attention!” and rode up
soldier and the gay and smartly marching men. in the second file
soldier after camp life. despite his rapid journey and sleepless night,
soldier.
sokolnitz, november 30, 1805.”
sokólniki forest and found dólokhov, denísov, and rostóv already
sokólniki after the duel and had spent that first agonizing, sleepless
“so it seems you’re a hero, eh? come now, what was this duel about?
so it seems to me.”
“so it is useless to ask whether it is good or bad. it is good because
“so it is all finished!” he thought. “and how has it all happened?
“so it does,” thought pierre.
soirees as before—such as she alone had the gift of arranging—at
so ill that he may die at any moment, and dr. lorrain has come from
“so i can fire when i like!” said pierre, and at the word
so he went from one group to another. some of the most important old men
so he simply held out his bristly cheek (as yet unshaven) and, regarding
soft steps of the footmen. at one end of the table sat the countess with
soft snowbanks that bordered both sides of the path. the prince went
soft hand taking hers firmly, and she touched with her lips a white
so for friendship’s sake he is leaving the university and me, his
so energetically do we pursue this aim that after crossing an unfordable
so easily extract a good profit for themselves from a dinner costing
so do you too! to the health of alexander the first! hurrah!”
so delighted...” came the sounds of animated feminine voices,
so convulsively that her bare little shoulders shook. natásha’s
so contrary to his method of conducting war? believe me, he is afraid,
so completely silenced and their arguments confuted by such conclusive
society woman to be buried in the country during the best years of her
society so dearly and distinctly indicated.
society of women was rather derogatory to his manhood. he went to balls
society, more especially of the feminine society, in which i have had
society had lost her former influential connections. she had now come to
society had entered the simple feeling of the attraction of a healthy
society. beside him stood a lad of nineteen, also a wounded officer of
society, and so her position now is not a rosy one. we should enter into
society.
society.
so-called battle of the three emperors—that is to say, a slow movement
so, but you have no sense about women. what an argumentative fellow you
sobs. the count was lighting his pipe and did not notice his son’s
so beautiful that very often in spite of the plainness of her face
sobbing like a child. the door opened. the doctor with his shirt sleeves
soap, and all,” as the soldiers say. there was only one circumstance
so. and, in fact, the last letter he had received from mack’s army
so alien to us.
snuffbox with her husband’s portrait on it.
snuffbox while trying to hear what was being said at the other table.
snow-covered road, did not once wake up on the way to moscow, but lay
snacks.”
smoothing down her dress with an inquiring look at her mother, when
smooth—felt that no small matter was happening, but an important and
smooth as a sign that the conversation was at an end.
smolyanínov, and it mortified him to think that the newcomer was an
smolénsk threatening bald hills—even then i wouldn’t serve in the
smoking and talking. he neither smoked nor talked, but bending his head
smoke. the excited faces of the soldiers were blackened with it. some
smoke spasmodically and screwing up his eyes. this was an old bachelor,
smoke, rendered denser by the mist, prevented him from seeing anything
smoke enveloped everything.
smoke, and an officer catching sight of bagratión rushed shouting after
smiling over the fan.
smilingly raising a finger at him, she left the room.
smilingly inclining his head.
smiling joyfully; and snatching the shawl from the footman, whom he
smiling, glittered with effort and exasperation as he mustered his
smiling face, moved after willarski with uncertain, timid steps.
smiling. “cela nous convient à merveille.*(2) suvórov now—he knew
smiling, but in spite of herself her eyes under their thick long lashes
smiling at his reassuring thoughts.
smiling as if she did not recognize him.
smile was unlike the half-smile of other people. when he smiled,
smile that usually brightened her face. pierre knew that everyone was
smile on his lips change.
smile on his lips and face, but his eyes were dull and lifeless and in
smile of satisfaction and presented a strange appearance among the
smile of his which seemed to say, “ah! this is what i like!”
smile of a doctor to whom an old wife wishes to explain the treatment of
smile, for which he was long unable to forgive himself, “i have lost a
smiled and interrupted him.
smile, and pronouncing the phrase “knocked out” with ringing
smile, and engaged the smiling julie in a confidential conversation
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smeared with chalk—as white as flour! i suppose they polish him up as
smash something. pushing away the footmen he tugged at the frame, but
smashed, and the shouting grew louder. they drank to bekleshëv,
“smart lads! only fit for a fair!” said one.
small old man, with powdered wig, small withered hands, and bushy gray
small cloud rose from the hill and was borne in a streak to the left by
small but distinctly visible enemy column was moving down the hill,
“smack at ‘em, lads!” he kept saying, seizing the guns by the
slope of the hill amid the smoke a russian battery that was still firing
slippery ice that covered the millpool.
slight smile he began to examine his nails.
slightly sarcastic smile. “i am borís, son of princess anna
slightly open, as if to say, “yes, yes, i am putting my purse in my
slender little girl.
slender, delicate arm, high above the elbow on that part that is covered
sleigh and pair at once, and go to bezúkhov’s, and tell him ‘count
sleeve with her finger, saying:
sleeves!” said anna mikháylovna, pointing to nicholas as he went out.
sleepiness that kept coming over him. an enormous space, with our
sleep at night. come now, where has this great commander of yours shown
sky with clouds that had risen and were floating still higher, and
sky—the lofty sky, not clear yet still immeasurably lofty, with gray
skittles,” said he in conclusion.
skillfully made watch, dares to say that, as he does not understand
skillfully changed the subject. he asked him to tell them how and where
six weeks later he was married, and settled in count bezúkhov’s
six weeks after anna pávlovna’s “at home” and after the sleepless
sixth stroke. the doctors pronounced recovery impossible. after a mute
sixth chasseurs whom they had just passed. prince andrew was struck by
six miles away, or whether they were near by in that sea of mist, no one
“six hundred rubles, ace, a corner, a nine... winning it back’s
situation it occurred to him that it was he who was destined to lead it
situated,” said prince andrew.
sitting so for a while he rose, and, looking about him with frightened
sitting room.
sitting on the sofa with the little cushions on its arms, in what used
sitting noisily backward and forward, made efforts to control himself
sitting motionless before the glass, looking at her face, and saw in the
sitting in a conspicuous place and talking to him like a grown-up lady.
sitting here in almost the same positions as before, whispering to one
sitting down beside him she began to speak about his father; but he
sitting close to nicholas who was copying out some verses for her, the
sitting at tea with bilíbin. “the fete is for tomorrow. how is your
sitting and dropped onto it, covering his face with his hand. pierre
sit down! sit down, michael ivánovich!”
sister with the mole.
sister. “why isn’t she dull and ashamed?”
sister,” was all she said, in a dry and mournful tone.
sister’s room his wife was already awake and her merry voice, hurrying
sister’s, but while in her case everything was lit up by a joyous,
sister-in-law’s friendship for you. she was not expecting us?”
sister-in-law’s dress.
sister had hung round his neck with such emotion and reverence, “it
sister, catiche, with a vicious and determined look steadily fixed on
sister, black eyes... na... tasha... (won’t she be surprised when
sir, for shame! it would be better if you went to the war.”
sire,” * he answered gaily, raising nevertheless ironic smiles among
sir!”
“singers to the front” came the captain’s order.
singer” (he meant natásha’s italian singing master), “that’s
since the time when he thought his son had been killed, he did not think
since the nursing mothers were no longer sent to work on his land, they
since then pierre had not been disturbed and had spent the whole time in
“since the day of our brilliant success at austerlitz,” wrote
“since prince bagratión is not coming, we may begin,” said
since his appointment as commander in chief. he told me himself that
since early morning—despite an injunction not to approach the picket
simultaneously attacked and outflanked by superior french forces under
simply looking at him.
simply dressed hair (two immense plaits twice round her lovely head like
silver and crystal gleamed, so did the ladies’ toilets and the gold
sill to attract attention. “wait a bit, kurágin. listen! if
sill. “listen!” cried he, standing there and addressing those in the
sill, leaned over, and looked down.
silken hangings. on leaving the bed both prince vasíli and the princess
silent, waiting for what he would say.
silent, “that sónya and nicholas now say you to one another and meet
silent prayer. every morning she came in like that, and every morning
silently, with the languid interest of sick children, at the envoy
silently—fearing to speak because at every word he felt ready to
silent. at first kutúzov stood still while the regiment moved; then he
silent as he passed by, and moved to make way for him. at first pierre
silent and seemed confused. the prince asked her about her father, and
silent.
silence ensued. the countess looked at her callers, smiling affably,
silence at princess anna mikháylovna. after her talk with pierre, anna
silence as he left the drawing room. he pictured the vanity of his
silence and the regular tramp of feet beating the ground in unison, one
silence.
sign that this was exactly what he had desired and expected. turning
signs to the footmen, and anxiously glancing from the clock to the door
sign papers, to present himself at government offices, the purpose of
sign of strength.
significantly at her husband) “i’m afraid, i’m afraid!” she
significant command to come to her on tuesday.
sign.
sight of tears and was ready to cry himself.
sight of murat’s mantle and ostrich plumes, qu’il n’y voit que du
sight of his superiors, he did not notice the staff of the banner and
     sighing its message out to thee...
sighed. “i have loved you like a son from the first. trust yourself to
sídorov, turning to the french, winked, and began to jabber meaningless
“sideways! cover yourself with your pistol!” ejaculated nesvítski.
sideways at princess mary from a little distance. “you have a maroon
sides’ was smothered in sobs and he could get no farther. and again
side, so close to our own forces that napoleon with the naked eye could
sides. he acknowledged no acquaintances but saw in all these men only
side (only now did pierre realize how near death his father was), and
side of the question and you will see that your duty, on the contrary,
side by side. prince vasíli was not having any supper: he went round
side as her betrothed, seeing, hearing, feeling her nearness, her
side and looked round with a frown. along the road from pratzen galloped
side and at first did not play. dólokhov kept glancing at him.
sick man had been laid in a stately pose in keeping with the ceremony
“shut up!” cried dólokhov, pushing him away from the window. the
“shut up!”
shudder of disgust.
shown to the best room, which dólokhov had taken for that evening. some
shown, fired. not at all expecting so loud a report, pierre shuddered
showing under his open shirt, he stood in a majestic pose in the light
showing the spot where it burst.
showing the necessity of first paying off the loans from the land bank,
showing the creases where it had been folded and thick gold epaulettes
show her over, and they’ll talk nineteen to the dozen. that’s
showed that, in spite of all his love and respect for his father, he was
showed how he presented himself, with his hand to his cap, and really
showed greatness of soul by not fearing to take on himself the whole
showed a paper she held in her hand—with the verses nicholas had
shouts of thousands of voices. his horse and the horse of the hussar
shouts of hurrah, and saw wounded being brought back (there were not
shouting grew louder and louder. rostóv could hear the sound of french
shouting came from, a fire flared up and went out again, then another,
shouting.
shouted to him:
shouted the regimental commander, thrusting forward his jaw and pointing
shouted “hurrah!” in exactly the same voice in which he had shouted
shouted hoarsely.
shouted denísov, suddenly, turning purple and rushing at the man with
shouted denísov in a bloodthirsty tone.
shouted.
should one love and what hate? what does one live for? and what am i?
“shouldn’t we now send for berg?” asked borís. “he would drink
should now be away in a foreign land amid strange surroundings, a manly
should much like to be an adjutant and not remain at the front.”
should get not more than two hundred rubles every four months, even
shoulder, their bayonets interlocking, moved over the bridge in a dense
shoulders, turned out his toes, tapped gently with his foot, and, by
shoulders close to his eyes.
shoulders. anna mikháylovna with just the same movement raised her
shoulders and eyes, almost closing the latter, sighed, and moved away
shoulders and dropped his eyes as if startled by something extraordinary
shoulder and taking his feet off the sofa.
shoulder and left the room without snuffing the candles or saying why he
should be if i could now say: ‘lord, have mercy on me!’... but to
should be glad and not cry.”
should be a nice set of fellows if we were to wait about and so give him
should already have suggested to your heart, if it is sincere, more than
shots came.
short sturdy figure with the sinewy hairy hand and stumpy fingers in
shortsighted delight at the misery of others, and doubts and torments
shortly after nine o’clock that evening, weyrother drove with his
shops, bakers’ signboards, street lamps, and sleighs!” thought
shooting at you like a target.”
shone with such gaiety and youth, such innocent youth, that it suggested
shod in a tartar boot embroidered with silver, and the firm pressure
shirt, and in every knapsack the appointed number of articles, “awl,
shinshín. “he has stopped austria’s cackle and i fear it will be
shinshín, a cousin of the countess’, a man with “a sharp tongue”
shining eyes, not interrupting or questioning him, but believing with
she would say. what could all that matter in comparison with the will of
she wished to and only refrained out of regard for his modesty.
“she will go to the country.”
“she went. suddenly there was a great wind. the girl lost her hat and
“she was so tired that she has fallen asleep on the sofa in my room.
she was now saying she had talked of before, with tears.
she was not a fool to want to have children, and that she was not going
she was no longer in the loose gown she generally wore in the morning,
she was, natásha, who knew how sensitive her mother was to anything
she was much altered. she was now plain rather than pretty. her cheeks
she was dancing with a grown-up man, who had been abroad. she was
she used to have quarrels with the too indulgent count, that son who
(she used the word “diplomat,” which was just then much in vogue
she understood all the gravity of her friend’s trouble.
she turned to his father. the conversation was general and animated,
she turned to go, but he stopped her with a gesture and took an uncut
she turned away from him and glanced at her younger brother, who was
she turned away and gave her hand to the count, who could hardly keep
she tried to pass anna mikháylovna, but the latter sprang so as to bar
she took the liberty of inquiring whether it was long since anatole
she took his arm and with a happy face went with him into the adjoining
she took a pair of pear-shaped ruby earrings from her huge reticule and,
she thought: “if i seem not to notice he will think that i do not
she suddenly paused, smiling at her own impetuosity.
she suddenly came into his mind as she was at the moments when he had
she smiled as she uttered his pet name, “andrúsha.” it was
she seemed to promise to explain that necessity to him when he came on
she seemed that day to be more than ever kind and affectionate to
she said, trying to smile though tears were in her eyes.
“she said.... oh yes! she said, ‘girl,’ to the maid, ‘put on a
she rushed to sónya, hugged her, and began to cry.
she roused herself, and felt appalled at what she had been thinking, and
she rose and smoothed her hair, which was as usual so extremely smooth
she rang for her maid and asked her to sleep in her room.
she pushed the little dog off her lap and smoothed her dress.
she pulled up her muslin sleeve and showed him a red scar on her long,
she paused, as women always do, expecting something after they have
she ought to behave like mademoiselle bourienne, but could not.
she not only left her hair as it was, but did not even look in her
“she needs rest,” said prince andrew with a frown. “don’t you,
she must love him if she could so far forget herself! perhaps i might
she must be on the chest in the passage. the chest in the passage was
she moved toward anna pávlovna. hélène was so lovely that not only
shelters with merry chatter and laughter; around the fires sat others,
she looked timidly at her brother.
she looked round and seeing that her friend was not in the room ran to
she looked at him inquiringly and with childlike reproach.
“she let the hawk fly upward from her wide right sleeve,” went the
she led him into the dark drawing room and pierre was glad no one could
she knew so well), on the lock of gray hair that escaped from under the
she knew of the duel and had come to speak about it. she waited till the
“she is not very well,” answered mademoiselle bourienne with
she hurriedly ascended the narrow dimly lit stone staircase, calling to
she has a brother; i think you know him, he married lise meinen lately.
she had spoken to hippolyte in the drawing room and which was so plainly
she had seldom experienced, came upon her. she feared to look round, it
she had sacrificed so much. she could not refrain from weeping at these
she had learned it) she talked with her partner, fanning herself and
she had just vacated. “you have made the place warm, i must say,” he
she had first entered the room—the smile of a perfectly beautiful
she had finished speaking to him, and now he continued to speak to
she had determined not to tell her and persuaded her father to hide the
she had been married during the previous winter, and being pregnant did
she had a fan in her hand that one of the ladies had given her to hold.
she grew confused, glanced round, and, seeing the doll she had thrown
(she glanced at hélène and smiled at her.) “my dear hélène, be
she gave her companion an angry glance.
she forgot all fear of her father, went up to him, took his hand, and
she felt guilty.
she felt any symptoms of pregnancy. she laughed contemptuously and said
she faltered. “you are on good terms with michael ilariónovich
she drew nearer to him. her face flushed.
shed, and its tone was so sincere that he could not but listen.
she crossed herself, kissed the icon, and handed it to andrew.
she could not lie either on her face or on her side. every position was
she continued, uniting them both in one glance. pierre did not look at
she considered the resonance was best.
she caught the young officer by his cuffs, and a look of solemnity and
she came up fearless and gay to kiss her hand. “i know she’s a scamp
she brought into princess mary’s strenuous, mournful, and gloomy
she began to tell of how at potsdam the impious bonaparte had stolen the
she began to smile and talk. he asked about mutual acquaintances, and
she became still more animated and chattered away giving him greetings
she approached him, saw his face, and something gave way within her. her
she always addressed him with a radiantly confiding smile meant for him
she already had power over him, and between them there was no longer any
she added, turning to her hostess. “you wrote that it was to be quite
she added hurriedly. “no, don’t be angry, but promise! i have asked
shawl had been adjusted he kept his arm around her for a long time, as
sharpshooters showed themselves in the copse. it was timókhin’s
sharpshooters in front of our columns. the colonel at the head of the
sharply, with a slight trembling of the lower jaw, “i can’t prevent
share defeat and disgrace with kutúzov’s whole army.”
shameless, and he ignores her!”
shame and anger choking him, had already leapt from his horse and run to
“shall you write to him?” she asked.
“shall we have time to change clothes?”
“shall we have three cold dishes then?” asked the cook.
shall think nothing of an extra seventy miles to come and see you at
shall reproach my wife with anything, and i cannot reproach myself
shall not agree with you, and you do not really believe what you are
shako on the back of his head. he came up to the porch gloomily, hanging
shadow of the wall. pausing for a moment, pierre noticed several other
shading his eyes with his small hand.
severity. the dance grew livelier and livelier. the other couples could
severity changed, and he drew pierre’s hand downwards, made him sit
severely. “you don’t wish to apologize, but, man, it’s not only to
severe gaze straight on pierre’s face.
several wounded men passed along the road, and words of abuse, screams,
several times in the course of the morning princess mary began trying to
several thousand rubles quitrent received from pierre’s peasants,
several thousand rubles.
several soldiers fell, and a second lieutenant who was holding the
several soldiers fell.
several persons whom he did not know, giving him a whispered description
several of those present smiled at zherkóv’s words, expecting one of
several of them were not separated from one another but merged into a
several dead men. one ball after another passed over as he approached
seven virtues, corresponding to the seven steps of solomon’s temple,
seventeen of the forty men of the guns’ crews had been disabled, but
“seven new and three old imperials.”
seven in the morning but had not reached it by five in the afternoon.”
seven he needed was lying uppermost, the first card in the pack. he had
set without whom my wife cannot exist, and those women.... if you only
“settled!” replied borís.
settled into three groups. one, chiefly masculine, had formed round
settled. he came because of sónya. and sónya, though she would never
settled down comfortably beside the fire.
setting, on a finely wrought silver chain.
setting it on fire and the french batteries were now firing at them, no
setting fire to schön grabern.
set off to rejoin the army, not knowing where he would find it and
set fire to the schön grabern village, delayed the french advance. the
serving our tsar and our country, rejoicing in the successes and
serving as a private. but the command of the extreme left flank had been
service to place himself very advantageously. he was aide-de-camp to a
service,” said the prince disdainfully. “why his son is coming i
service... it can’t be helped... one is sometimes a bit hasty on
service is to serve under him.”
service, and he at once understood his role, letting his hostess make
service. a little behind them stood the two younger princesses holding
service.”
serve him. rostóv patted the horse’s neck and then his flank, and
served up was received with pleasure by all her visitors. the greatest
servants with lanterns were bustling about in the porch. the immense
servants say in a frightened whisper. “catch hold from underneath.
servant.
serious tone, “but the prince told me to ‘go and tell the colonel
seriousness of his stupid smile, could not but give him a moment’s
serious for an instant at the sight of her, but immediately smiling
serious expression. but the author himself took the verses and began
serious duel, and besides, drubetskóy, who says he is an old friend
sergéy kuzmích...’ poor vyazmítinov could not get any farther!
“sergéy kuzmích—from all sides—” he said, unbuttoning the top
‘sergéy’ he sobbed, ‘kuz-mí-ch,’ tears, and ‘from all
sergeant was carrying in a wooden bowl to an officer who sat on a log
sergeant in charge of the cannon which was to give the signal to fire
separation! though i tell myself that half my life and half my happiness
separating the living from the dead—lay between them. all were
“separate? very well, but only if you give me a fortune,” said
separately through his thin compressed lips, “i will throw him down
sent you. religious! i don’t interfere with anyone’s belief... i
sent to moscow. the story told about him at count rostóv’s was true.
sent instead of our dear wintzingerode you would have captured the king
sentiments,” he seemed to be saying, “so much the worse for you!”
sent dólokhov the whole forty-three thousand rubles and received his
sent an official to austria to seek for traces of his son, he ordered a
sense of awe and veneration such as he had experienced in his boyhood at
senseless cry, “cut off!” that is so terrible in battle, and that
sensation of those terrible whistling sounds and of the corpses around
sensation of fear and respect which the old man inspired in all around
send his orderly staff officer, and later prince andrew also, to order
semi-private, long-established jokes and amusing reminiscences, though
“semën! do you know the daniel cooper?”
“sell us that horse!” denísov called out to the cossacks.
“sell me the missis,” said another soldier, addressing the german,
self-satisfied, youthful, and constant smile of animation, and by the
self-satisfied.
self-respect, but admit that the time and place are very badly chosen.
self-possession mingled at that moment in rostóv’s soul.
self-possession. if a man lacking in self-confidence remains dumb on
self-derision genuinely russian. bilíbin wrote that the obligation of
self-confident french; then again, like a man weary but unflinching in
self-confident.
self-confidence, while his body was thin and weak. his eyes, nose, and
self-complacent happiness that one sees on the face of a boy happily
self-complacency than his did.) “well, he stormed at me, as the saying
self, and so before one can know, it is necessary to believe and to
seizing the most opportune moment for making use of people.
seizing his father’s hand, he pressed it to his lips and burst into
seize some horsecloths, though he had told him the russians were there.
seized him at the thought of that dreadful step. a thousand times during
seized by terror lest he had already, in some way, bound himself to do
seized by an unreasoning panic—it occurred to him that the child was
see you,” he added, bowing his head.
see whether they were getting up.
see whether it was firmly plaited, and grasping his by the hand. “the
see whether he cannot attach you to himself or find a place for you
see those who, judging by the sound of hoofs and voices, had ridden up
see the true light, and that he, pierre, ought to aid, enlighten, and
see the soldiers’ shaggy caps, distinguish the officers from the men,
seen you. very glad! go back to your rooms, princess. go!” said
seen through.
seen. the lines of that mouth were remarkably finely curved. the middle
seen the light, come here? what do you seek from us? wisdom, virtue,
seen the day before in the arms of her nurse’s daughter—at her
seen. prince andrew stopped and began examining the position.
seen him since we acted together at the rumyántsovs’ theatricals. i
seen him in petersburg. i saw him just as i see you.... there he sat in
seem to him that everyone is afraid of him, and that must please him.
seeming to grow suddenly smaller, and respectfully received the blessing
seemed to wish, but to be unable, to diminish its effect.
seemed to say. “you had not noticed that i am a woman? yes, i am a
seemed to say: “yes, there’s nothing left for you and me but to sip
seemed to say. she saw her husband, but did not realize the significance
seemed to me to have an excellent heart, and that is the quality i value
seemed to him that it was getting lighter. to the left he saw a sloping
seemed to him that it was a very long time ago, almost a day, since he
seemed to him that he had expected all this and even more. trying
seemed to him that bogdánich rode so near in order to show him his
seemed to him like ants. in that world, the handsome drunkard number one
seemed to him as though one of the soldiers near him hit him on the head
seemed to him all the interests that engrossed napoleon, so mean did his
seemed to her that someone was there standing behind the screen in the
seemed to hear left... left... left.
seemed to have changed roles since the campaign of 1805. the old man,
seemed to groan at the terrible impact.
seemed to give way within him at this news. dólokhov was a suitable and
seemed to be seeking something, and soldiers dragging doors, benches,
seemed to be poles—all under the russian crown—but here they’re
seemed to ask. she noticed at once that something had happened to him.
seemed ready to lift its tail, jump down on its soft paws, and begin
seemed loaded with a whole houseful of effects. a fine brindled cow with
seemed like a lifeless body, but as soon as he came up it became alive,
seemed impossible. “but perhaps they may do it!” for more than ten
seemed familiar to princess mary was saying something.
seemed confused and blushed as if not knowing what to say.
seemed as though not the trumpeters were playing, but as if the army
seem.
seek nothing, be not anxious or envious. man’s future and thy own fate
seeing them he kept thinking, “that may be the very standard with
seeing the fright of that small and frail but proud man when covered by
seeing the favor the emperor showed the prisoners, they now hastened to
seeing that smile, rostóv involuntarily smiled himself and felt a still
seeing some men running toward him. “they will help me!” in front
seeing prince andrew stopped, hesitating on the threshold. he went into
seeing anna mikháylovna and her son, prince vasíli dismissed the
“see, i’m standing! see!” she said, but could not maintain herself
see how these nestlings are growing up,” and she pointed to the girls.
“see how smart she’s made herself! oh, the devils!”
see his face. anna mikháylovna left him, and when she returned he was
seduced, and to whom her poor mother (sa pauvre mère) appeared, and
sedate, and the naïveté of his youthful egotism was so obvious, that
secret malevolence in their hearts.
secretly regretting this, saw only the dark side.
secretary rather than commander in the army. my removal from the army
secretary of the russian embassy, do not feel any need in token of my
second time. but pierre was so absorbed that he did not understand what
seconds he stood not moving from the spot or realizing the situation.
“second line... have you written it?” he continued dictating to the
    second epilogue
seats in the dining room, according to their rank and importance: the
seated them on the center sofa. the bigwigs, the most respected members
seat.
search of somebody and answered all her questions in monosyllables. he
scrutinizing anatole closely and intently.
screwing up his eyes and shaking with suppressed laughter, and unable
screwed up his eyes as if dazzled by the sun. he was entirely absorbed
screams kept repeating:
screams, continued.
scratch yourself.”
scratch from one paragraph to another with his hard nail.
“scoundrels! blackguards!” shrieked the old man, turning his face
scoundrel? is that how you look at it? we don’t see it like that. and
scoundrel is again at our heels!”
science explaining the whole creation and man’s place in it. to
“schubert, the colonel of the pávlograd hussars, is dining with us
schoss, and his old nurse, and asked them to kiss for him “dear
schools,” he went on, crooking a finger, “education and so forth;
schoolboy called up before a large audience for an examination in which
schön grabern—and he would have found that easier. the committeemen
schön grabern affair, just as those who have taken part in a battle
“schon fleissig?” * said rostóv with the same gay brotherly smile
schönbrunn, 25th brumaire, 1805,
schlappanitz and the thuerassa forest, avoiding the defiles of
schlappanitz and bellowitz which cover the enemy’s front. for this
schérer, maid of honor and favorite of the empress márya fëdorovna.
schérer. at the other end sat the younger and less important guests,
schérer.”
scarred and puffy face.
sca’cwow? call the quahtehmasteh,” he shouted to lavrúshka.
scabbard and flourishing it.
say—“yes, misfortune! call it what you please, i know that what
say to the adjutant that borís felt uncomfortable. he turned away and
say that there are only two sources of human vice—idleness and
say that it is dull in my house again,” and she glanced at hélène.
say something but could not. her brother had guessed right: the little
say it.”
saying this he again turned round, dropped his hands, took the bottle
saying that the russian ladies are not equal to the french? one has to
saying that, on the contrary, she remembered him quite well. then
saying that he must prostrate himself at the gates of the temple.
saying something witty and stinging.
saying.” prince andrew looked silently at pierre with an ironic smile.
saying it right, i have drunk a good deal—but that is how i feel, and
saying. “i have been an atheist,” answered pierre.
saying as he moved from the gun, when a strange, unfamiliar voice called
saying, and sat plunged in thought. five minutes later, gently swaying
saying.
say i’ll have his head off if everything is not here in a week.
say (as he has done before) that i’m in the dumps.”
say.
saw with his own eyes brick buildings erected or in course of erection,
saw them all and saw them in detail. she saw prince vasíli’s face,
saw the beloved features that were so deeply engraved on his memory. the
saw his smile, which said nothing, unless perhaps, “opinions are
saw friendly looks and heard friendly words. yesterday’s adjutant
saw denísov coming home. denísov was a small man with a red face,
saw—covered to the waist by a bright green quilt—the familiar,
saw a rather short man. having evidently come from the light into the
saviour’s words, that it is easier for a camel to go through the
save myself?” he thought. he rode on to the region where the greatest
saved. but he saw nothing. above him there was now nothing but the
sausages and a bottle of wine.
sat waiting for something, and again soldiers straggling from their
sat up and began wiping her eyes and explaining.
sat playing patience with the old gentlewoman who lived in their house.
satisfied with the party. she replied in her usual simple manner that
satisfied with him?” he asked the regimental commander.
satisfaction.
sat in an armchair in her dressing jacket and nightcap and katie, sleepy
sat facing bagratión and, as the very personification of moscow
sat down languidly on the sofa: he felt it unpleasant to have dropped
sat down at her writing table, on which stood miniature portraits and
sat down again, smiling at the noise they had made and exchanging
satchels, sabretaches, open portmanteaus, and dirty boots. two freshly
sarcastic smile.
sang the quartette, “the brook,” with which everyone was delighted.
same. you’ll be all right anywhere. but look here: give up visiting
same way. when did it happen and what has happened? i am well and strong
same to me!” he screamed in the same piercing tone as when parting
same time felt shy.
same time at the emperor francis.
same state of excitement as when she had slammed the door of her room.
same speed, but they kept increasing their pace, so that some of the
same sergeant major iván mítrich, the same company dog jack, and the
same question. “will papa be back soon?”
same!” pierre often indulged in reflections of this sort, nullifying
same moment his kindly eyes grew moist with tears of joy and enthusiasm.
same mind he began explaining the advantages and disadvantages of the
same.... is everything ready?” he added. “only tell me where to go
same firm pressure of the hand and the same quick, repeated bows. as
same expression, which seemed to say that he had a right to suppose
same commanders. the sailor rarely cares to know the latitude in which
same as usual,” and princess mary pale, frightened, and with downcast
same?”
same!”
salver, glanced around in dismay, as though seeking help. but all eyes
saluting, and this sound rapidly came nearer along the whole extended
sake that the latter might say something he would afterwards regret.
saint, my angel,” she said with a sigh.
said zherkóv.
said yesterday... let him grow up with you.... please.”
said without sitting down. “a person of very high standing in our
said, without noticing nicholas.
said to her, went to the looking glass and arranged her hair and scarf.
said to be fleeing in great disorder. mind you gallop off to kórchevo
said this some time after she had finished singing. while that untrained
said the princess in a tone of entreaty.
said the princess, ignoring his question. “now i know! yes; if i have
said the old soldier dismally to a comrade, “you’ll forget to
said the old man, “say so, my dear sir.” and he suddenly smiled, in
said: “then i will go to my rooms. you will let me know when i can see
said the general, turning to an artillery officer. “have a little fun
said the countess smiling.
said the countess, indignant that they should have dared to treat this
said the countess. “but i am in great need of this sum.”
said: “that’s bad! go on, go on.”
said shinshín, laughing ironically and mixing the most ordinary russian
said she, uttering the word with peculiar assurance and unconcern, “i
said she in french, displaying her bag and addressing all present.
said she.
said rostóv in an imploring voice, “but i can’t apologize, by god i
said rostóv, blushing.
said repnín.
said prince andrew who had not yet had time to eat anything.
said prince andrew when they had gone into the large room where the
said prince andrew, as he entered the study, rubbing his small white
said one of the nursemaids to prince andrew who was sitting on a
said, of a wife who was a celebrated beauty and of millions of money.
said nothing to borís and, evidently unable to suppress the thoughts
said little iogel coming up to nicholas. “look how many charming young
said it, and they all felt awkward.
said inquiringly.
said in a tone of indifferent politeness:
said, “how am i to stifle in my heart these temptations of the devil?
said, holding the casement and not closing it. “with lanterns. most
said her eyes. she was not surprised at his having come; she did
said he. “now for trouble!” rostóv looked out of the window and
said he, carrying away into the darkness a glowing stick.
said he, “but the health of our sovereign, that good, enchanting, and
said he, bending down a finger.
said he.
said dólokhov.
said bilíbin as he came out to meet prince andrew. “franz, put the
said a tall, grizzly-haired staff captain, with enormous mustaches and
said another.
said a gunner, coming up to túshin.
said:
said.
said.
sad voice, as if saying: “very well, finish me off.”
sadness, and this occurred every time she mentioned her illustrious
saddle sore which, coming after all my previous journeys, quite prevents
saddle, he galloped to the other flank of the squadron and shouted in
saddle and touched up his horse to ride once more round his hussars. it
sad and depressed. it was all so strange, so unlike what he had hoped.
sacrificed myself. but only the base, the vile succeed! i know who has
sacrificed everything for his sake!” she cried. “it’s splendid!
sacrament. the dying man lay as lifeless and immovable as before. around
sacrament, allow him a moment’s peace! here, pierre, tell them your
sabretache...”—“keep to the right, your honor, there are bushes
saber which had caught in his cloak. it was an old-fashioned saber of
saber them... whom? the hussars... ah, the hussars with mustaches. along
saber, he sank on the snow beside it. his left hand was bloody; he wiped
saber had tasted flesh and he had fallen exhausted, and so on. and so he
russia were settling near the fortress of braunau and burdening the
russia’s glory were led to destruction. go, princess mary. go and tell
russian valor—what more could be wished for?”
russian troops were crossing the river enns. at midday the russian
russian troops moving down the valley to their left.
russian troops and their commander of the laurels they have been
   russians! o’er all barriers on!
russians from krems to znaim.
russians fought, the only consequence of these actions was a yet more
russian on which he wished to put a contemptuous emphasis.
russian musketeer who had gone up to the picket line with an officer and
russian general. the general shouted a demand that the cavalry should be
russian bath. the movement of these wrinkles formed the principal play
russian army will be fully equipped, and shall then, in conjunction with
russian army! well, as i was saying,” he continued, recovering his
russian army loots terribly—her army is destroyed, her capital
     russian army, i must say that your victory was not
russian army found vent in anger at zherkóv’s untimely jest.
russian army. and i won’t—not even if bonaparte were here at
russian arms.
russian and the austrian. the guards, just arrived from russia, spent
russian.
rush to obey the summons. “send dmítri to me!”
rushing at the cadet to restrain him.
rushed out apparently beside herself with delight.
running to the door and the noise of a chair falling over, and a girl
running into sónya’s room and not finding her there, natásha ran to
running? can they be coming at me? and why? to kill me? me whom everyone
running beside timókhin, killed a frenchman at close quarters and was
running.
rum without taking it from my mouth, sitting outside the window on this
rumored, the allowance of forage money to captains of companies would be
ruin. wasn’t he my friend? wasn’t i fond of him? but it’s not his
rug and began reading to him from a manuscript book an explanation of
rubles i don’t know what to do with, and she stands in her tattered
rubles, dólokhov lived with him and had placed himself on such a
rubles a year? and,” he went on after a pause, “what will it be in
rubles at a time, to talk about not wishing to cringe to anybody and not
rubbing his bald head and angrily pulling back toward him the little
rubbed his forehead as if to rid himself of all interest in what he
royalist emigrant.
rows of statues in niches) and looking significantly at the lady’s old
rows of faces so alike yet so different, holding its breath while the
“rousseau’s contrat social,” said the vicomte with a tolerant
roused, had begun to talk, and wanted to express what had brought him to
roused by activity, expected the best results from the new campaign,
round with much animation and cheerfully nodded to his son as the latter
round the two corners of the mouth; this, together with the resolute,
round the table, the clatter of plates, knives, and glasses mingled with
round the first man changed his run to a walk and, turning, shouted
round the company. he noticed the change in the little princess’
round sónya and natásha as the air does before a thunderstorm. sónya
round shoulders shuddered as if a cold shiver had run down them, how his
round-shouldered captain túshin, stumbling over the tail of the gun
round. prince andrew and the battalion were already within twenty paces
round once more. the french had fallen behind, and just as he looked
round márya dmítrievna, now on his toes, now on his heels; until,
round his son’s neck, and without a word he began to sob like a child.
round her head.
round an open window. three others were romping with a young bear, one
round and notices here a spindle that has stopped or there one that
round and galloped back to the place where he had seen the emperor, but
round and clapping rostóv on the shoulder with his big hand.
rosy, with a dark little mustache, evidently rested and made sleeker by
rosy, was sitting in an easy chair with her work in her hands, talking
rostóv, without returning home, took a horse and rode there. there was
rostóv with dólokhov and denísov stayed on at the club till late,
rostóv wiping his muddy hands on his breeches looked at his enemy and
rostóv, who had just celebrated his promotion to a cornetcy and bought
rostóv, who had completely forgotten denísov, not wishing anyone to
rostóv, when their leave permits had been passed at the town gate and
rostóv went to telyánin’s quarters.
rostóv went on ahead to do what was asked, and to his great surprise
rostóv waved his cap above his head like the german and cried laughing,
rostóv was very happy in the love they showed him; but the first
rostóv was not far from the trumpeters, and with his keen sight had
rostóv turned his horse and galloped back. four more reports followed
rostóv took the purse in his hand, examined it and the money in it, and
rostóv took the money, avoiding telyánin’s eyes, and went out of the
rostóv took the money and, mechanically arranging the old and new coins
rostóv took the letter and, throwing the money on the sofa, put both
rostóv too, bending over his saddle, shouted “hurrah!” with all his
rostóv thrust the purse under the pillow and shook the damp little hand
rostóvs, with whom she stayed when in the town and where her darling
rostóv submitted. he let the eight hundred remain and laid down a seven
rostóv stopped his horse for a moment on a hillock to see what was
rostóv stopped.
rostóv, still looking round toward the fires and the shouts, rode with
rostóv, standing in the front lines of kutúzov’s army which the tsar
rostóv staked five rubles on a card and lost, staked again, and again
rostóv’s soul (it seemed to rostóv that he understood everything),
rostóv’s share in dólokhov’s duel with bezúkhov was hushed up by
rostóv spurred his horse, called to sergeant fédchenko and two other
rostóv smilingly reassured the dragoon and gave him money.
rostóv smiled.
rostóv shrugged his shoulders as much as to say: “nor do i, but
rostóv’s horse was also getting restive: it pawed the frozen ground,
rostóv’s feeling, there was a deathly stillness amid which was heard
rostóv’s face. a gentle, mild light poured from them. then all at
rostóv saw that it had been well considered by them. sónya had already
rostóv saw tears filling the emperor’s eyes and heard him, as he was
rostóv saw overhead the old familiar cornice with a bit of plaster
rostóv saw nothing but the hussars running all around him, their spurs
rostóv’s and back, and back again and again in an instant.
rostóv, rubbing his eyes that seemed glued together, raised his
rostóv rode on at a footpace not knowing why or to whom he was now
rostóv recalled at that moment a strange conversation he had once had
rostóv noticed something new in dólokhov’s relations with sónya,
rostóv met sónya in the drawing room, he reddened. he did not know
rostóv looked at and listened listlessly to what passed before and
rostóv let go of the horse and was about to ride on, when a wounded
rostóv learned later that russian and austrian soldiers had been firing
rostóv laughed so loud and merrily that denísov, in his bedroom, felt
rostóv hurriedly put something on his feet, drew on his dressing gown,
rostóv, his eyes avoiding denísov, began buttoning his coat, buckled
rostóv himself, his legs well back and his stomach drawn in and feeling
rostóv heard.
rostóv had just prepared a card, by bending the corner of which he
rostóv had been ordered to look for kutúzov and the emperor near the
rostóv, growing red and pale alternately, looked first at one officer
rostóv from a distance saw with envy and remorse how von toll spoke
rostóv for his friendship to her fédya, often talked to him about her
rostóv followed them. in front of him walked kutúzov’s groom leading
rostóv, flushing, drew dólokhov into the next room.
rostóv felt that, under the influence of the warm rays of love, that
rostóv felt ill at ease. he tried, but failed, to find some joke with
(rostóv felt himself quite tiny and weak compared to these gigantic men
rostóv felt denísov’s gaze fixed on him, raised his eyes, and
rostóv fancied he had seen before) rode up to the ditch, struck his
rostóv did not think what this call for stretchers meant; he ran on,
rostóv did not speak.
rostóv did not listen to the soldier. he looked at the snowflakes
rostóv did not know or remember how he ran to his place and mounted.
rostóv could already see their faces and heard the command:
rostóv considered, and then went in the direction where they said he
rostóv became thoughtful.
rostóv as he continued to deal.
rostóv anticipated his horse’s movements and became more and more
rostóv, and sighing deeply he took rook, his horse, which stood resting
rostóv and most of the officers after the review.
rostóv and had not responded to his greeting. when the emperor’s
rostóv, and dólokhov—who was now again an officer in the semënov
rostóv and denísov drove away with the wounded dólokhov.
rostóv, absorbed by his relations with bogdánich, had paused on the
rostóv.
rostóv.
rostóv.
“rostóv!”
rose in alarm on seeing it.
rose from an ensign and became emperor. well, well, god grant it,” he
rose, by a glance inviting pierre, who sat opposite, to listen to what
rose and with her heavy tread went up to the table. she took a sheet of
room with the inkstand in her hand.
room with rapid steps. now he seemed to see her in the early days of
room without a word. but at the door he stopped and then retraced his
room with a look of alarm. between twelve and two o’clock, as the
room, where you will be ranged side by side with a court lackey and an
room to write to his father, to whom he wrote every day. in the corridor
room, they still heard the laughter and merry voices trying to persuade
room. the prince stood still; his lively glittering eyes from under
room. the old man already knew everything. he was standing close to
room. the old countess, waiting for the return of her husband and son,
room. the countess reflected a moment and took a pinch from a gold
room, something flew out from a side door like a tornado and began
room. no one spoke and the only sounds heard were the clatter of knives
room.... nicholas had been prepared for resistance, but had not at all
room,” he said.
room, grew silent and gazed with eyes full of curiosity or expectancy at
room, exclaiming and oh-ing and ah-ing.
room. denísov silently watched lavrúshka’s movements, and when the
room by which dolgorúkov had entered—a short man in civilian clothes
room and we shall have to go down, and you have not smartened yourself
room and still less how to leave one; that is, how to say something
room, and looked round with a smile. she was, as always at evening
room, almost all the company had assembled, and the conversation, guided
room. all were silent.
room after supper? why, we settled how everything was to be. i don’t
room, addressed pierre.
room.
rook—a handsome horse despite its game leg—had the happy air of a
roof lit up by the sun? no one knows, but one wants to know. you fear
rolling them up. márya dmítrievna always spoke in russian.
rolled softly over the straw beneath the windows, anna mikháylovna,
rode with our regiment all the time, so that we had every comfort and
rode side by side in front, at full gallop. one in a black uniform with
rode past the limbers to the farthest cannon.
rode, not hoping to find anyone but merely to ease his conscience. when
road which gleamed white in the mist would have been safer because it
road. bagratión’s exhausted and hungry detachment, which alone
rivulet flowed, the soul-stirring rolling and crackling of musketry was
river we burn the bridges to separate ourselves from our enemy, who at
river flowed was formed by the rising ground only half a mile away.
rite which everyone expected of him, and that he was therefore bound
rising in his soul. dólokhov, denísov, and rostóv were now sitting
risen and was going toward his room.
ringing, deliberate voice. “i ask an opportunity to atone for my fault
ring, cried from the window: “come here; part the bets!” this was
ring, and zherkóv, uneasily glancing at them all, and prince andrew,
right! twenty-one rubles,” he said, pointing to the figure twenty-one
right to fire when they liked as they approached the barrier. dólokhov
right sounded oftener and nearer. as soon as túshin with his guns,
rights of man, is sentenced to...” but before pierre—who at that
right, shouting and firing were again heard. flashes of shot gleamed in
right—serve him. nicholas bolkónski’s son need not serve under
right. selfish, vain, stupid, trivial in everything—that’s what
rightly supposes that matters have already gone too far. i think it will
right light.... in my opinion perpetual peace is possible but—i do not
right, it is advantageous to attack the enemy’s latter wing especially
right—he did not know. “but was it really not possible for kutúzov
right hand, which was lying palm downwards, a wax taper had been thrust
right flank and drive it into the bohemian mountains according to plan,
right and what’s good must be judged by one who knows all, but not by
right!” and his head once more sank to his horse’s neck. all at once
right across the skull. having said this he glanced at natásha.
right.
rid them of the bourbons and because they saw that he was a great
riding over it trained a gun on him and fired several shots. the
riding away, say to czartorýski: “what a terrible thing war is: what
riding, and sometimes, when he came within six paces of them, the
riding alone with three hussars into that mysterious and dangerous misty
riding a fine bobtailed horse, and a civilian—an accountant who had
rid himself of them he closed his eyes.
rider’s leg. blood was flowing from his head; he struggled but could
ride and especially by the sound of the bullets.
rich youths, officers and cadets, who had galloped past him on their
rich old man. but before leaving home and undertaking these new affairs,
richest of the officers now that he had received his money, bought it.
rich?”
ribbons.
rhetor went away, leaving him to solitary meditation. “it must be so,
rhetor, though it aroused his curiosity, did not seem to him essential,
rhetor’s instructions. the mason drew the shirt back from pierre’s
rhetor said, “to bring yourself to regard it not as a dreaded foe, but
rhetor, after a moment’s pause.
revolution, which has become more terrible than ever in the person of
revoir! ”—and she left the hall.
reverence and was beyond question.
return to her the whole evening.
return the holy image.
returning to the town. the commander in chief made a sign that the
returning to his hobby; “tell me how the germans have taught you to
returning his smile.
returning from his journey through south russia in the happiest state
returned to petersburg quite crestfallen.
returned to moscow and went straight to her rich relations, the
returned home just before dinner. as soon as he entered he noticed and
returned from them dragging sheep, fowls, hay, and bulging sacks. at
returned from the council, tired and exhausted but eager and proud
returned from a long journey on which he had spent dozens of years, had
returned, and over the bottle of wine conversation between the three
returned), and, forcing open a loosely closed latch, set the damask
     return.”
retreat to the dip by echelons.” so he reasoned.... all the time
retreating to our frontier—which do today.’
retreating forces.
retreating against their will. a few minutes after the emperor had
retreated as a disorderly crowd. one soldier, in his fear, uttered the
retreat after a battle have lost it is what we say; and according to
“retire! all to retire!” he shouted from a distance.
resumed its former cold, artificial expression. she returned to the
resumed her duties as hostess and continued to listen and watch, ready
result from it—no longer seemed to be in the future but in the past.
rest, went in to dinner. he was seated in the place of honor between
restraining his tears of pity for the emperor, he rode on in utter
restraining her angry tears.
restrained animation as he stood sipping tea from a delicate chinese
resting, and to halt facing vienna with znaim to his rear, and if he
rested on prince andrew’s face.
rest, and then...”
responsibility of that deed.”
responsibility. but circumstances are sometimes too strong for us,
respect, he had decided that it would be a good thing to set fire to the
respectfully when the military governor, having stayed about half an
respectfully bowed head, seemed also to be waiting. the silence lasted
respectfully.
respected and feared her.
respect and honor you, but all the same remember that the future belongs
resounding voice, apparently to preclude the possibility of not being
resounded. the column moved forward without knowing where and unable,
resounded on the planks of the bridge, and the squadron, officers in
resolved to go away next day and leave a letter informing her of his
resolved not to be the first to break silence, if she had to wait till
resolution. can it be that i have none?”
resolute self-will, “he is wicked and heartless. there now, i like
resolutely took the salver with both hands and looked sternly and
resolute in the discharge of duty, ran out and touching pierre lightly
reserve units were able to join up, and the fight was at an end. the
reserve tomorrow,” he thought. “i’ll ask leave to go to the front,
reserve gun carriage, the wounded were carried away, and the four guns
resembling his master in manners and looks, who was accompanying him
rescue. pierre had managed to start a conversation with the abbé about
required papers. kutúzov and the austrian member of the hofkriegsrath
request that he would take no part in the matter, rostóv agreed to be
request.
repulsed, he had lost more than half his men. he said the attack
reproachfully at the count who had presented it to him. someone
reproached him for not having stayed at the palace, and offered him
reproached her for yielding to a man without being married. mademoiselle
reproached and disputed with each other.
reprimanding and reproaching him. túshin gave no orders, and,
represented as a brilliant victory over the french, and so the
represented all that was left of that whole regiment. impelled by the
representative but one of the great century, and that it is his own
reprehensible, looked round with a blush. it seemed to him that everyone
report was heard, bagratión looked round and shouted, “hurrah!”
reports that prince auersperg was defending vienna?” he said.
reports one after another, and a third.
reports from our scouts. here are two letters from count nostitz and
reported to him, and then joined the adjutants listening to what the
report, and began deliberately to examine the whole battlefield extended
reply—which he would not have received, for the princess was unable to
reply to his look, and went still faster along the passage.
reply.
reply.
replied: “yes, yes, i agree,” and with a beaming, childlike smile,
replied that it would be more than enough for him and that he gave his
replied prince vasíli.
replied borís, betraying neither annoyance at the prince’s brusque
replied, and the four simply looked at one another. she lingered in the
replied, “and it is that he would be merciful to him and would allow
replied.
replace some chessmen that were falling. he was about to embrace his
repented and added: “i am glad; really, dear, i am very glad.”
repellent. yet in this very repugnance to all his circumstances pierre
repeating to himself at each alternate step, “left... left...
repeating the terms of the wager to him in english.
repeating the terms of the bet, addressing himself particularly to
repeating in a low voice the same words several times over.
repeat his question.
repeated. “i should be glad enough to fall asleep, so it’s not my
repeated from the opening words of the manifesto:
repeated by others from various sides and all became silent.
renounced your former convictions—do you believe in god?”
rendered, and i supplied them with a doctor, a hospital, and an asylum
remorse, humiliations, sufferings, outbursts of pride, fear, and
“remember that you will answer for the consequences,” said prince
remember nikólenka too, i remember him well,” she said. “but i
remember how we and nicholas, all three of us, talked in the sitting
“remember, for you everything depends on this.”
remember everything?” said natásha, with an expressive gesture,
remembered it three months before, when the count had sent him to
remark to him, pointing to the gallant Ápsherons.
remarks which seemed to him clever while they formed in his mind became
remarks. the old count rose once more, glanced at a note lying beside
remarks at him, though without looking at him.
remarked. “well, sit down: let’s have a talk.”
remain stationary in face of an enemy eight times as strong as itself.
remains of supper. a footman, thinking no one saw him, was drinking on
remains of sheds, chairs, tables, wheels, tubs, and everything that they
remaining strength. he raised his pistol and aimed.
remaining in moscow, and only awaited the termination of denísov’s
remained on the farther side of the bridge facing the enemy, who could
remained in reserve and nicholas rostóv spent that day in a dull and
remained alone with him for a long time.
relying on reason only? what art thou? you are young, you are rich, you
reluctantly, but gradually with more and more animation, and from habit
religion?”
relays.
relating to the condition of the troops on their arrival, and the
relating to nikólenka, did not venture to ask any questions at dinner,
rejects all knowledge that does not come from him; and the less we seek
reins and started of his own accord.
reinforce the right flank. the officer of the suite ventured to remark
regular order.
regular motion as a result of all that activity.
regularity in his household was carried to the highest point of
regrettable delusion.”
regret her words. but she went on hurriedly:
regret. drawing rooms, gossip, balls, vanity, and triviality—these are
regiment was much surprised at the commander in chief’s order to throw
regiment, they listen intently, look about, and eagerly ask concerning
regiment. the faces of these young people, especially those who were
regiments form bands and scour the countryside and put everything
regiments, both cavalry and infantry, were by no means ready for the
regiment, saying he was not such a fool as to slave at the front when he
regiment next to no time, my lad, you’re here today and tomorrow
regiment—instead of the straggling, disorderly crowd it had been on
regiment had just the appearance of any russian regiment preparing for
regiment had been broken up. all he knew was that at the commencement
regiment but was not liked; rostóv especially detested him and was
regiment, and bogdánich knows it. oh, we do prize it, old fellow! and
regimental commander was nicknamed king of hearts).
regimental commander, overtaking the third company on its way to its
regimental commander hung his head, silently shrugged his shoulders, and
regimental commander cooling down a little. “leave indeed.... one says
regimental commander and major ekonómov had stopped beside a bridge,
regeneration, and return to life.
regenerate, purify, and elevate me. but you don’t understand it.”
regard to this project of marriage for me, i will tell you, dear sweet
regarding him with a smile of approbation.
regarding all arguments as nonsense in comparison with that smile.
regard him—but you want to cure him from love of him. and he does not
regarded all these little adjutants on the staff of whom the newcomer
refusing to let her see them off. the diplomatist preserved a mournful
refuse iogel and asked sónya to dance. denísov sat down by the old
refusal with his head and hand and by that gesture rostóv instantly
reform by marrying him to prince andrew’s sister.
reflections. better die a thousand times than risk receiving an unkind
reflected on theirs.
refined french in which our grandfathers not only spoke but thought, and
“refill my pipe for that one!” and then, scattering sparks from it,
referred to in that drawing room as “a man of great merit” (un homme
reduced to tears.
red. several battalions of soldiers, in their shirt sleeves despite
red patches appeared on princess mary’s face and she was silent as if
red hands; he did not know, as the saying is, how to enter a drawing
recruits were being enrolled in the villages, and from the seat of
recruitment so as to avoid active service. the old prince and his son
recruiting. none of them had yet seen the manifesto, but they all knew
recross to the other. at last our enemy, buxhöwden, catches us and
recovered, and rostóv became very friendly with him during his
recover.”
recounting his military exploits (prince andrew could not endure
recommended to the empress) and at the same time to console him, so she
recollections.” prince vasíli sighed. “yes, yes, my boy. and my
recollection of how he was put in the sleigh or of the first three
recognizes his high vocation and will be true to it. that is the one
recognized the tsar and watched his approach. when he was within twenty
recognized his lamented and adored monarch.
recognized him and stopped to listen to what he was saying. dólokhov
recognized as legitimate; so that he is now count bezúkhov and
reckoning.”
reciprocated this antipathy, but it was overpowered by his contempt
reception room if he wished to see him. borís thanked him and went to
reception hall: michael ivánovich, mademoiselle bourienne, princess
reception.
receiving it. this gratitude reminded him of how much more he might do
receiving from all sides declarations of the people’s loyalty, that
receive that science it is necessary to purify and renew one’s inner
received was shown him. a strange lady, the one who had been talking to
received pierre with a shade of melancholy, evidently relating to the
received him with distinction and special marks of favor, explaining to
received by the emperor. had you heard?”
received. a thanksgiving service was arranged, kutúzov was awarded
received as a savior.”
received and read the then famous rescript of the emperor alexander
received all petersburg, proud of her unapproachability and beauty. so
received.
receipt, he left at the end of november, without taking leave of any of
recalling bilíbin’s words.
recalled thousands of such hints from prince vasíli and others, and was
recalled all this as childishness he had left immeasurably behind.
recalcitrant cavalry colonel, his own dignity as a general, and above
rebuking her for her fall.
reawakening. he was afraid of any want of clearness, any weakness, in
reasons for buonaparte’s hatred of him.
reason, ran back and disappeared from the outskirts, and russian
reason, or shot a post-boy’s horse with a pistol. that expression
reason of her friend’s sorrow, “i’m sure véra has said something
reasoning contained in the mason’s words, or believed as a child
reason for rejoicing, they looked at each other with joyful delight and
rearguard all the freshness of atmosphere of the french army, which was
reappeared.
real state of french public opinion.”
“really, truly!” answered natásha, pushing in a crisp lock that had
“really, papa, i believe prince bagratión worried himself less before
“really, i don’t yet know. i don’t like either the one or the
“really i don’t care about that, i don’t care at all,” said
really good society” consisted of the fascinating hélène, forsaken
really...” but he did not say what “it really” was. “for the
really all the same to me when my son’s fate is at stake.” the
realized that something dreadful had happened to his regiment, and the
realized as he read that book: the joy, hitherto unknown to him,
realize because the fear was so much the stronger feeling. the prince
reality again presented itself. he got up without saying a word and went
ready to embrace the countess at the appropriate moment.
ready, the stranger opened his eyes, moved to the table, filled a
read this in tíkhon’s face and in that of prince vasíli’s valet,
“read this if you like, father,” said the princess, blushing still
reading. then milorádovich looked round significantly at the other
reading them aloud. bagratión bowed his head and listened:
reading the letter. he went on tiptoe to the nursery door and opened it.
reading confirmation in anna mikháylovna’s face.
readiness to fall in love and an expectation of happiness.
readily and rapidly like a man who has not talked for a long time. his
read a congratulation on his future son-in-law and on his daughter’s
reaching the large house near the horse guards’ barracks, in which
reached. wheels creak on their axles as the cogs engage one another and
reached to his very heels, and, stumbling in it, ran out into the porch
reached the bushes. behind these were some russian sharpshooters.
reached bagratión, the weighty tread of the mass of men marching in
rays of gentle light shone from her large, timid eyes. those eyes lit
rattle on the bridge as if nuts were being spilt, and the hussar nearest
ratify it; but it is only a trick. march on, destroy the russian
rather than of what the generals were disputing about.
rather short, as if surprised that anyone should not know him.
rather round shoulders and glanced at novosíltsev who was near him, as
rather of death, as the saying is. ‘albanians!’ and ‘devils!’
rather confine ourselves to studying those sublime rules which our
rate he glanced at the refractory arm, at pierre’s terror-stricken
rasgulyáy—the coachman ipátka knows—and look up the gypsy
rascality....”
rarely left her and which made her plain, sickly face yet plainer. she
rarely done of late. it was a grand farewell dinner, as he and denísov
rapid, self-confident, familiar tone. “here is my second son; please
rapid retreat. austrian troops that had escaped capture at ulm and had
rapidly and indistinctly. “you thought!... rascals! blackguards!...
rapidly adding up the total of rostóv’s debt, breaking the chalk as
rapidly.
rapidity. he again vividly recalled the details of the battle, no longer
ran up, begging a little fire for the infantry.
ran rapidly over the wide space, but he only saw that the hitherto
ranks were returning from the attack. rostóv got out of their way,
ranks in this regiment.”
ranks; anatole was in the army somewhere in the provinces; prince andrew
ranks.
rank—“i thank you for myself and for our two dear ones whose name
rank (for he did nothing), that prince vasíli had procured for him,
rank and importance, who was the first to arrive at her reception. anna
range and wipe them out?” these were the questions each man of the
ran forward shading his eyes with his small hand to look at the french.
ran forward on each such occasion, fearing to miss a single word of the
ran ahead on tiptoe and knocked at a door.
raising his soft foot backwards, bowing his perspiring head, smiling
raising his eyebrows.
raising him.
raise him. but as soon as he thought of what he should say, he felt that
raised. he remained stubbornly silent, gazing at weyrother’s face,
railings. he looked back laughing to the cossack who stood a few
rage, “who are you? are you in command here? eh? i am commander here,
radiantly on her beautiful face. pierre gazed at her with rapturous,
quoting one of his own mots, releasing the wrinkles on his forehead, and
quivering in his breast and a tickling in his nose, and tears dimmed his
quits... it can’t be!... and why is he doing this to me?” rostóv
“quite well? all right then, sit down.” he took the exercise book
quite true; he had been indebted to her father for the first steps in
quite sincerely tried to make her look pretty. she was so plain that
“quite right,” said the englishman.
quite remember how, but don’t you remember that it could all be
quite opposite reputations. some, a minority, acknowledged him to be
quite mistaken if you reckon me or my mother among such people. we are
quite heard.
quite close at hand, and a voice of naïve terror barely two steps from
quite certain. ah! it is very dreadful...”
“quite avare, your excellency,” suddenly shouted the colonel,
quite astonishing. how did you get things settled? i couldn’t possibly
quilt. the eyes and face of the sick man showed impatience. he made an
quietly and said in a whisper: “please walk in.”
quietly and humorously how he had known that doll mimi when she was
quiet authority, “you wish to insult me, and i am ready to agree with
quiet and peace. thank god!...”
quick-witted, nor ready or eloquent in conversation, but he had the
quick or the enemy will bring up his guns to use grapeshot.”
quickly turned away, a scarcely perceptible smile flitting over his
quickly roused himself with a feeling of joy, as if learning afresh that
quickly. prince bagratión, uttering his words with an oriental accent,
quickly as possible.
quick.
questions that might be put to him and the answers he would give. he
questions put to him. he was bespattered with mud and had a pitiful,
questions of health, sometimes in russian and sometimes in very bad but
question—one so important that he took no notice of what went
questioning him about political affairs and news. he seemed to listen
question him. the man announced that the tsar had been driven in a
question he noticed that it should not have been put.
question for whose sake he came (though no one spoke of it) was soon
question for her to refuse him. and therefore nicholas’ first feeling
questioned prince andrew about the details of his interview with the
“qu’ est-ce qu’il chante?” * asked a frenchman.
queer,” he added after a pause, “that you should have suspected
quarters torches and candles were burning and no one slept. the old
quarters near braunau, where they hoped to receive boots and clothes and
quarters and riding up to captain timókhin who was walking in front.
quarter of an hour between two fires.”
quartermaster’s presence.
quartermaster for the money.”
quarreled with her brother about him. she insisted that he was a bad
quarreled with hélène, mon cher? you are under a delusion,” said
qualities. he was always hearing such words as: “with your remarkable
qualifications for it—the kind of good-natured, fussy shallowness
puzzled the devil himself! when you get there you’ll find out what
putting the nightshirt over his dried-up old body and gray-haired chest.
putting them down. when they’ve been put down, the war with buonaparte
put questions and gave brief replies about things they knew ought to
put it off. perhaps god will help me to find a way to prepare him!...
put it in a carriage, and set off with it to visit some actresses! the
put a little aside and to send something to my father,” he went on,
pushing back his chair, he rose from the table.
pushed the guns and wagons themselves. whips cracked, hoofs slipped,
pushed back in the sitting room where the count and márya dmítrievna
pursued by the french army of a hundred thousand men under the command
purse undah the pillow,” he said, and went out to the quartermaster.
purse that sank into the sofa. “as for us, count, we get along on our
purse and, drawing its rings aside with his small, white, turned-up
purse.
purposely dropped a handkerchief in front of him and stood looking
purple face, reporting something.
purple-faced general wait respectfully while captain prince andrew, for
purity, and not the serfs’ backs and foreheads, which, beat and shave
purified, thou wilt gain wisdom. look at your life, my dear sir.
punishments were to be admonitory and not corporal, and hospitals,
pultúsk to petersburg returns bringing our appointment as commander in
pulling it or being pushed by it he did not know, but rushed along at
pulling him by the chain and trying to set him at the others.
puckering up his face though smiling, and showing his short strong
public to appreciate his skill.
p.s. let me have news of your brother and his charming little wife.
przebyszéwski, with respectful but dignified politeness, held his
przebyszéwski’s and langeron’s columns which had already gone down
przebyszéwski and his corps had laid down their arms. other columns
prussians without giving them time to finish the parade they had begun,
prussian army, hélène had suddenly found it necessary to see him.
prussia, and had just returned from there as a special messenger. he had
proverb says,” remarked shinshín, moving his pipe to the other side
proudly at his son.
protégé, but prince dolgorúkov politely and firmly pressing his hand
prostrated himself before the gates of the temple. and really, the
prospect of spending an evening with a poor invalid is not too terrible,
proposition to you in his pupil’s—i mean, his son’s—name. do you
propose is the only thing possible.”
proper posts. borís had been quartered, and had marched all the
properly. hélène answered with a smile that she too had missed it.
proper, and regular motion. but amid these cares her anxiety about
proofs of nikólenka’s virtues. how strange, how extraordinary, how
pronounced the mason in a stern and tremulous voice.
promotion to the rank of major, and rostóv, who had already drunk
promotion, nicholas said that he kissed his father’s and mother’s
promotion...”
promotion.
promise to prince andrew was of no account, because before he gave it
promise of rising in his diplomatic career. he was still a young man but
promised not to forget him, distinguished him above the other adjutants,
promised? nothing! and what little they have promised they will not
prominent gray eyes. then she shook her head and glanced up at the icons
promener,” * she used to say. often seeing the success she had with
projects for peace, a secret peace concluded separately.”
progress. would you believe it, i have literally not a penny and don’t
profited by their toil to lead a profligate life. that is what you have
produced on sónya, felt for the first time the sorrowful side of the
produced an effect she glanced at anna pávlovna, at once adopted just
produce at the same intervals and hold for the same time, but which
proceeding as usual. denísov, who had been losing at cards all night,
proceeded to his study.
problems in higher mathematics, turning snuffboxes on a lathe, working
probably to strengthen the front line. the smoke of the first shot had
probably think it easy to gain victories!” he thought. his eyes
“probably,” said prince andrew moving toward the outer door.
probably he did not, for in general he thought very little—but his
prizes his freedom which he needs for so many other things. when he
privilege of admiring her beautiful figure and shapely shoulders,
private and had not seen fit to recognize him. but now that kutúzov had
prisoners.”
principals nor their seconds suffered for it. but the story of the duel,
principal guests. he was just going to take it when dólokhov, leaning
“prince, what i have said is all there is in my heart. i thank you for
prince was at home, and showed him into a clean little anteroom.
prince vasíli, with one leg thrown high over the other and a snuffbox
prince vasíli wished to obtain this post for his son, but others were
prince vasíli, who pretended to want to know this in order to settle a
prince vasíli was seated in an easy chair in his familiar attitude,
prince vasíli was not a man who deliberately thought out his plans.
prince vasíli stared at her and at borís questioningly and perplexed.
“prince vasíli’s son, he, and a certain dólokhov have, it is said,
prince vasíli smiled, and pierre noticed that everyone was smiling at
prince vasíli smiled.
prince vasíli’s last words. then rising, he suddenly went up to his
prince vasíli’s face so out of keeping with his dignity that pierre
prince vasíli’s daughter, the beautiful hélène, came to take her
prince vasíli saw the princess off. she held a handkerchief to her eyes
prince vasíli saw that pierre knew this. he suddenly muttered
prince vasíli’s arm and led him to his study. as soon as they were
prince vasíli said no more and his cheeks began to twitch nervously,
prince vasíli rose. “oh!” said he with reproach and surprise,
prince vasíli rose.
prince vasíli readily adopted her tone and the little princess also
prince vasíli passed by, seeming not to hear the ladies, and sat down
prince vasíli looked questioningly at the princess, but could not make
prince vasíli kept the promise he had given to princess drubetskáya
prince vasíli had to settle matters with pierre, who, it is true, had
prince vasíli had come to the conclusion that it was necessary to throw
prince vasíli gave pierre a significant look.
prince vasíli frowned, twisting his mouth, his cheeks quivered and his
prince vasíli did not reply, though, with the quickness of memory and
prince vasíli did everything to get pierre to marry his daughter. had
prince vasíli came next. he staggered to the sofa on which pierre was
prince vasíli bent his head and spread out his hands.
prince vasíli became thoughtful and frowned. anna mikháylovna saw that
prince vasíli a third time. “how absent-minded you are, my dear
prince vasíli, as he entered. “i know all about it, and i can tell
prince vasíli arrived that evening. he was met in the avenue by
“prince vasíli arrived in moscow yesterday. i hear he has come on
prince vasíli and the generals, had the benefit of the diplomat.
prince vasíli and the eldest princess were sitting close together
prince vasíli and that son of his to me? prince vasíli is a shallow
prince vasíli and anatole had separate rooms assigned to them.
prince vasíli always spoke languidly, like an actor repeating a stale
prince vasíli.
prince told me to ask,’ and come and tell me her answer.”
prince to get up, tíkhon came to call the young prince to his father.
prince’s things in my bedroom,” said he to the servant who was
prince, stepping on his heels, paced up and down his study and sent
princess, with the long waist and hair plastered down like a doll’s,
princess with the expression women assume when they suppose they are
princess with a pleased smile, as to an intimate acquaintance.
princess went in with the drink she had prepared according to
princess was not unwell, but had such an overpowering fear of the prince
princess, turning away and continuing to read. but julie did not flatter
princess suddenly, her pretty face all at once distorted by a tearful
princess rose. “it’s now two o’clock and you dine at four. there
princess’ room, a carriage containing pierre (who had been sent for)
princess on hearing the news.
princess never saw the beautiful expression of her own eyes—the look
“princess, my dear, there’s someone driving up the avenue!” she
princess mary with a gay smile, as if inviting her to join in a laugh at
princess mary went to the door of the study with special trepidation.
princess mary went back to her room with the sad, scared expression that
princess mary was still standing by the cot, gently rocking the baby.
princess mary was sitting on the sofa in her room, holding the weeping
princess mary was left alone. she did not comply with lise’s request,
princess mary was first surprised and then aghast at this question.
princess mary threw a shawl over her head and ran to meet the newcomer.
princess mary, then sat thinking for a while with that expression of
princess mary’s self-esteem would be wounded and his point (not to
princess mary sighed, and having crossed herself went down, thinking
princess mary shuddered; her nurse, putting down the stocking she was
princess mary shrugged her shoulders but took the glass submissively
princess mary sat alone in her room listening to the sounds in the
princess mary rose and moved to the door, then stopped and said:
princess mary looked at them in silence. she could not understand it. at
princess mary looked at her brother in surprise. she did not understand
princess mary, little as he seemed to value her, was unthinkable to
princess mary knelt down before her and hid her face in the folds of her
princess mary had long since put aside her book: she sat silent, her
princess mary had greatly changed since 1805.
princess mary grew quite unconscious of her face and coiffure. the
princess mary, evidently intimidated and confused that her opinion
princess mary did not listen to the end, but continuing her train of
princess mary could not understand the boldness of her brother’s
princess mary could not lift her head, she was weeping.
princess mary but were looking within... into herself... at something
princess mary admitted to one another that the angel’s face reminded
princess mary.
princess, looking at anna mikháylovna as at a stranger.
princess kurágina, a portly imposing woman who had once been handsome,
princess. (in accordance with lise’s and prince andrew’s wishes they
“princess, i must warn you,” she added, lowering her voice and
princess, i hold to the principle that a maiden has a full right to
princess. i am at your command.’ yes, he is a fine fellow and a very
princess, his cousin, at moscow, concerning dólokhov’s intimacy with
princess hélène, prince vasíli’s daughter, and the little princess
princess’ hand.
princess’ hair. it was evident that he could be silent in this way for
princess had been crying after dinner and had spoken of her forebodings
princess felt this; they still thought that if a blue ribbon were placed
princess’ face. she took it quickly and bent her head over it.
princesses was coming to take her turn at watching. “let us go.”
princesses spent most of their time, he greeted the ladies, two of whom
princesses, sat in a corner knitting a stocking. pierre had never been
“princesse, au revoir,” cried he, stumbling with his tongue as well
“princess drubetskáya to see prince vasíli sergéevich,” he called
“princess, come here!” he shouted.
princess’ beautiful eyes with all their former calm radiance were
princess anxious and inquiring, the nurse encouraging. everyone in the
princess anna mikháylovna intervened in the conversation, evidently
princess, and stared fixedly at her through his eyeglass.
princess and prince vasíli, recovering themselves, followed her. a few
prince’s question as to how she felt.
prince’s household. general in chief prince nicholas andréevich
prince, she prepared to listen.
prince repnín named lieutenant sukhtélen.
prince repnín!” and he spurred his horse and galloped away.
prince, one window frame was removed in each room as soon as the larks
prince nicholas frowned, but said nothing.
prince never directly asked himself that question, knowing beforehand
prince kurágin about me. i only wanted to ask because i fear the guards
prince interrupted her.
“prince, i did not ask you here. go, please go!” and he jumped up
“prince, humanum est errare, * but...” replied the doctor,
prince? how priceless are those last moments! it can make things no
prince hippolyte, who had been gazing at the vicomte for some time
prince hippolyte was lolling in a lounge chair with his legs over its
“prince hippolyte kurágin—charming young fellow; m.
prince hippolyte hurriedly put on his cloak, which in the latest fashion
prince hippolyte, having brought the workbag, joined the circle and
prince hippolyte approached the little princess and, bending his face
prince dolgorúkov to the advanced post of the french army.
prince dolgorúkov ceased to listen to him and gazed absent-mindedly not
prince, but could not get it quite right.)
prince bolkónski surveyed anatole.
prince bolkónski’s household felt that their life had not been real
prince bolkónski sat down in his usual place in the corner of the sofa
prince bagratión to begin the council. at last bagratión’s orderly
prince bagratión screwed up his eyes, looked round, and, seeing the
prince bagratión rode an officer of the suite, the prince’s personal
prince bagratión proposed to dolgorúkov to send to inquire of the
prince bagratión looked at túshin, evidently reluctant to show
prince bagratión, having reached the highest point of our right flank,
prince bagratión, distinguished by his schön grabern affair and by
prince bagratión and túshin looked with equal intentness at
“prince auersperg is on this, on our side of the river, and is
prince andrew without lifting his eyes rode hastily away from the
prince andrew with one word, one argument, 
prince andrew, who had evidently wished to tone down the awkwardness of
prince andrew, who had also been brought forward before the emperor’s
prince andrew when he drove up to the palace felt even more vigorous and
prince andrew went up to the child and felt him. he was burning hot.
prince andrew went out.
prince andrew went again to his wife and sat waiting in the room next
prince andrew was to leave next evening. the old prince, not altering
prince andrew was surveying the position, was the easiest and most
prince andrew was silent, but the princess noticed the ironical and
prince andrew was one of those rare staff officers whose chief interest
prince andrew was on duty that day and in constant attendance on the
prince andrew was as glad to find the boy like that, as if he had
prince andrew understood that this was said of him and that it was
prince andrew told his driver to stop, and asked a soldier in what
prince andrew. they had known each other previously in petersburg, but
prince andrew stopped short.
prince andrew stood right in front of kutúzov but the expression of
prince andrew stayed at brünn with bilíbin, a russian acquaintance of
prince andrew spoke so earnestly that pierre could not help thinking
prince andrew smiled ironically.
prince andrew smiled involuntarily as he looked at the artillery officer
prince andrew smiled as he looked at his sister, as we smile at those we
prince andrew smiled.
prince andrew’s joyous feeling was considerably weakened as he
prince andrew sighed and made no reply.
prince andrew sighed and broke the seal of another envelope. it was
prince andrew shrugged his shoulders.
prince andrew shouted, “brothers! all’s lost!” and at this as if
prince andrew, seeing that his father insisted, began—at first
prince andrew screwed up his eyes and turned away. pierre, who from
prince andrew’s calm manner of treating everybody, his extraordinary
prince andrew saw that the officer was in that state of senseless,
prince andrew said nothing to túshin. they were both so busy as to seem
prince andrew rose, shrugged his shoulders, and walked about the room.
prince andrew riding up to the officer.
prince andrew replied. then followed other questions just as simple:
prince andrew remembered nothing more: he lost consciousness from the
prince andrew remained at bald hills as usual during his father’s
prince andrew, recalling his father’s letter. “yes, we have gained
prince andrew only shrugged his shoulders at pierre’s childish words.
prince andrew nodded to him. he still looked ahead while prince andrew
prince andrew moved toward the door from whence voices were heard.
prince andrew made use of boguchárovo, began building and spent most of
prince andrew looked sternly at her and an expression of anger suddenly
prince andrew looked kindly at him, yet his glance—friendly and
prince andrew looked inquiringly at him and gave no reply.
prince andrew looked at his sister. in the dim shadow of the curtain her
prince andrew looked anna pávlovna straight in the face with a
prince andrew knew how to take his stand so that they respected and even
prince andrew kept looking with an amused smile from pierre to the
prince andrew. “i build a house and lay out a garden, and you build
prince andrew, his face distorted with fury, rode up to him and raised
prince andrew, having reached the front line, rode along it. our front
prince andrew had gone out into the hall, and, turning his shoulders
prince andrew grew more and more animated. his eyes glittered feverishly
prince andrew got up and went on tiptoe up to the little bed, wineglass
prince andrew glanced at kutúzov’s face only a foot distant from him
prince andrew glanced again at the artillery officer’s small figure.
prince andrew gazed with anxious curiosity at that impassive face
prince andrew gave him a look, but said nothing and went away. he felt
prince andrew galloped off to execute the order.
prince andrew frowned again, expressing his annoyance with whoever was
prince andrew followed her with a courteous but sad expression.
prince andrew felt that either the actions of kutúzov’s army
prince andrew expressed his ideas so clearly and distinctly that it was
prince andrew, evidently confused. “i know that out of a million
prince andrew during the battle had been in attendance on the austrian
prince andrew did not see how and by whom it was replaced, but the
prince andrew could not understand.
prince andrew considered possible contingencies and formed new projects
prince andrew caught him by the hand.
prince andrew bowed his head in token of having understood from the
prince andrew, beginning to understand that his news of the battle
prince andrew began to reply and to state his own plan, which might
prince andrew and his sister, hand in hand, kissed one another, and
prince andrew always became specially keen when he had to guide a young
prince andrew.
prince. and god only knows where your man peter is,” said the other
prince.”
prince.
prince.
priests; “all we relatives have been in such anxiety. this young
pride. “that lawsuit taught me much. when i want to see one of those
pride enough to see it? if she has no pride for herself she might at
pricking its ears at the sound of shots just as it had done on the
pricking its ears at the noise and looking at the lights. the shouting
prevented her from going on with it.
preussisch-eylau.
pretty young princesses gorchakóv met suitors there and were married
pretty face.
pretext. the fact is he has come to see count cyril vladímirovich,
pretext that her aunt wished to hear him.
pretense of helping, was in everyone’s way.
pretending to sleep, the sounds his nose emitted during the reading that
pretending to do something real. prince andrew gaily bore with his
presumptuous lieutenant who had prevented his finishing what he had to
pressure lay his only hope of salvation.
pressing the hands of prince andrew and borís. “you know i should
pressed two fingers more and more rigidly to his cap, as if in this
pressed him still harder with proofs of the impossibility and above all
president of the council of war. weyrother evidently felt himself to be
preserve his gravity.
preserved all that was good in it—equality of citizenship and freedom
present, suddenly pushed forward with a scared and angry look and wanted
present i am free and am all right. only i haven’t the least idea what
present emperor—more than once in paris, and tells me he never met a
presented he was as little able as his father to change his opinion. he
present bivouac another fortnight there will not be a healthy man left
presence, i will teach you to behave yourself.”
presence and particularly distinguished himself.”
preparing tea. he brought in a boiling samovar. when everything was
prepare her sister-in-law, and every time began to cry. unobservant as
prepared to continue, but just then anna pávlovna, who had kept a
prepared by long and diligent self-purification, not everyone can hope
prepare a circular, memorandum, or report, skillfully, pointedly, and
preparation swept over all the troops.
preparations for war lay in the fact that nicholas would not hear of
preoccupied, yet meekly christian look which never left her face, anna
preoccupied that only in bed was he able to be by himself. he had to
preoccupied manner. he beckoned to one of his white adjutants and asked
premeditation prince vasíli took the first opportunity to gain his
prejudices, and equality of citizenship, and all these ideas napoleon
pregnant,” said prince andrew, following every movement of his
preening its plumage and became motionless.
precedes a battle and had spent that happy day in inactivity, was all
prearranged sentence.
prayer. so, count, there never is any negligence in my company, and
prayed that the daily interview might pass off well.
pratzen, which was full of troops of all kinds.
pratzen, interrupted by such frequent reports of cannon that sometimes
pratzen heights.
prater... true, we have no prater here...”
prancing horse had splashed mud over some foot soldiers.
pranced up and down in one place like a goat and shrieked piercingly.
practical woman that she was, had even managed by favor with army
powerful nation like russia—barbaric as she is said to be—to place
power.”
power.”
powder smoke and stopped in despair. everything seemed lost. but at that
powder,” said prince andrew banteringly yet tenderly.
powdered footmen, in livery with buckled shoes and smart stockings,
pour vous. *(2) only a hobbledehoy could amuse himself in this
pour le roi de prusse!”
poured drops from a medicine bottle into a wineglass half full of water.
pouch was slung. he had an officer’s sword in his hand. the soldier
potëmkins or suvórovs left to oppose him; but he was also convinced
“postulant,” to the accompaniment of various knockings with
post of commander in chief as a reward for his victory, does not give up
postmaster’s book. bazdéev had been one of the best-known freemasons
posting date: january 10, 2009 [ebook #2600]
posted, two men appeared on horse back. they were an aide-de-camp
posted on a rather steep incline which dominated the french position.
possible. kutúzov himself with all his transport took the road to
possible. his conversation was always sprinkled with wittily original,
possible. god preserve us from that terrible misfortune!
possible. and i,” continued pierre, “shot dólokhov because i
possibility of anyone seeing her without being enchanted. the aunt
possibility of active brotherly love among men, which joseph alexéevich
possessor of the finest fortune in russia. it is rumored that prince
possessed. pierre was one of those who are only strong when they feel
possessed of a helen. “but no doubt it always is and must be so!”
position with his eyes shut. pierre looked at him and had not time
positions and withdrawn in his presence. together with túshin, stepping
position of the army reached him as he went along, and the appearance of
position of that insignificant individual was such as could certainly
position now, peter nikoláevich...”
position, it was now necessary to attack in order to cut a way through
position is now a terrible one,” continued anna mikháylovna, sadly,
position. he made some notes on two points, intending to mention them to
position. he kept closing his eyes and then again looking at the fire,
portrait (evidently by the hand of the artist belonging to the estate)
portmanteau into the vehicle, “we are to move on still farther. the
portfolio were the only sounds audible, but it was evident that if
portfolio she held in her hand. “all i know is that his real will is
portfolio, and changed her grip.
portfolio.
porter. he had no lambskin cap on his head, nor had he a loaded whip
porch. prince andrew got out of the carriage, helped his little wife to
porch. his landlord, who in a waistcoat and a pointed cap, pitchfork in
poor resources i have for entertaining a woman used to the best society.
poorer than the poorest beggar. a thousand thanks, dear friend, for the
poor amélie’s happiness, she loves him so passionately, and so
ponderous steps up to her sister-in-law.
pondered. sometimes he staked a large sum, but dólokhov refused to
pondered. a husband, a man, a strong dominant and strangely attractive
pomaded hair, perfumed, and in a new uniform, looking just as smart as
political news. it became particularly animated toward the end of the
political events.
politeness modestly placed himself at the disposal of the circle in
politeness and to start conversation, they asked him a few questions
politeness and affected sympathy of which indifference and even irony
polished shining cannon that quivered on the gun carriages and with
police tried to interfere, and what did the young men do? they tied
point where the french pickets had been standing that evening.
pointing to the flying soldiers; but at that instant, as if to punish
pointing to the fields, he spoke of the improvements he was making in
pointing to nicholas, “his friend borís has become an officer, and
pointed boot then fashionable, touched the groin of the bobtailed bay
point... come, how are you?” asked rostóv.
point. ask denísov whether it is not out of the question for a cadet to
point.”
pocket of his riding breeches, with his eyebrows lifted and his mouth
pocket and that’s quite simple and is no one else’s business.”
“plenty of time, your excellency,” muttered kutúzov in the midst of
pleasure to herself and to all around her. “i have brought my work,”
pleasure that for the first time since his arrival prince andrew was
pleasures than allow himself to be seen in a shabby equipage or appear
pleasure of deceiving me, if it really were true. yes, if it were true,
pleasure at the sound of the singing and the sight of the dancing
pleasure and listened to the conversation of his two neighbors, whom he
“please, your excellency, for god’s sake!” he kept saying,
“please, vasíli dmítrich,” natásha was saying, “do come!”
“please place your money on the cards or i may get muddled in the
please make way!”
“please,” he uttered with an effort.
“please have a look at it”—and kutúzov with an ironical smile
pleased with.
pleased to take me as an aide-de-camp....”
pleased faces, for they knew that under no other management could they
“please, denísov, let me lend you some: i have some, you know,”
pleased!” and he held out his hand to the captain.
“please come to tea. the prince will be out in a moment,” came the
“please come and visit us... you know my brave boy... been together
“please be quick,” he said.
“please, andrew, for my sake!...”
pleasant smile—his eyelids drooping more than half over his old eyes,
pleasant smile, as if it were obvious to him that his success must
pleasant face and resonant though not loud voice, attracted everyone’s
“plea...” began dólokhov, but could not at first pronounce the
play. involuntarily he felt a joyful agitation at the thought of the
playing with the ball of worsted as a kitten should.
playing chess. berg held a smoking pipe between his knees. borís, in
playing a viennese waltz on the clavichord, while a fourth, lying on
players, or peered at the now cold face of dólokhov and tried to read
player, in spite of the burden of his equipment, rushed out to the front
plans to kutúzov’s quarters where the council of war was to be
“plans!” repeated prince andrew ironically. “my plans?” he said,
plan perfectly worthless. weyrother met all objections with a firm and
plan of a flanking movement.
plan chimerical.
plaiting slippers out of cloth selvedges. he looked up at the opening
plain that she understood nothing and was so frightened that her
plainness of speech, uttering the word amant as casually as any other
plainly that there are not many wives with husbands such as you who
plain enough as it is.”
placing the bottle on the window sill where he could reach it easily,
place! we passed close to the park and saw two deer... and what a
place,” thought pierre. “it’s even certain that i should have done
places. then the strains of the count’s household band were replaced
places and met in certain habitual groups. a minority of those present
place him on a stretcher that had been brought. the soldier groaned.
placed them on the window sill, though it was already quite light.
placed a chair for her.
place and without answering drew out a handkerchief. blood was flowing
place and that he might now be lying, recovering or dying, alone among
place and everything waiting for him in the archives department! isn’t
pity’s sake, leave this helpless youth who, after all, was the son of
pity me. yet i was once at home, strong, happy, and loved.” he sighed
pity for me. why is it?”
pity, and for their sake i should like to liberate the serfs. you
pitied. she has no one, no one. to tell the truth, i don’t need her,
pistols, and at the word thwee begin to advance.
pineapple ice. before the ices, champagne was served round. the band
pinch of snuff.
pillows one at a time and shaking them.
pilgrimage, of holy friendship, of the eternal architect of the
pierre, without knowing why, was having his enormous petersburg house
pierre, with downcast eyes, drank out of his glass without looking at
pierre, with a gentle smile of pity and remorse, his arms and legs
pierre wished to say this to the mason, but did not dare to. the
pierre wished to say something, looked at her with eyes whose strange
pierre who was under such obligations to him (“but never mind that”)
pierre, who was lagging behind, to follow. though he did not see why it
pierre, whose preoccupied, absent-minded, and massive figure was a very
pierre who has inherited all the property and has besides been
pierre who had been regarded with patronizing condescension when he was
pierre, who had been growing more and more agitated as he listened to
pierre. “what of it? it’s the truth!” and he himself smiled his
pierre went with rapid steps to the door and suddenly came face to
pierre went out.
pierre went in at the door, stepping on the soft carpet, and noticed
pierre well remembered this small circular drawing room with its mirrors
pierre well knew this large room divided by columns and an arch, its
pierre was very fond of.
pierre was ungainly. stout, about the average height, broad, with huge
pierre was struck by the modesty of the small though clean house after
pierre was still afraid that this officer might inadvertently say
pierre was staying at prince vasíli kurágin’s and sharing the
pierre was sitting in the drawing room where shinshín had engaged him,
pierre was silent.
pierre, was only busy causing him annoyance.
pierre was one of those people who, in spite of an appearance of what
pierre was evident. she kept an anxious watch on him when he approached
pierre was about to reply, but prince vasíli interrupted him.
pierre understood nothing of all this and coloring shyly looked in
pierre turned over heavily on the ottoman and opened his mouth, but
pierre turned his whole body, making the sofa creak. he lifted his eager
pierre tried several times to speak, but, on one hand, prince vasíli
pierre took them off, and his eyes, besides the strange look eyes have
pierre took off his spectacles, which made his face seem different and
pierre took off his coat, waistcoat, and left boot according to the
pierre took his feet off the table, stood up, and lay down on a bed that
pierre threw off his cloak and entered the first room, in which were the
pierre, the one who had behaved so improperly at anna pávlovna’s
pierre. the estates he had not before visited were each more picturesque
pierre stood with his arms hanging down and legs apart, before his
pierre’s remarks, rose and made a sign to his wife that it was time to
pierre’s outburst anna pávlovna, despite her social experience, was
pierre’s mind was in such a confused state that the word “stroke”
pierre smiled in his good-natured way as if afraid for his companion’s
pierre smiled, but his smile showed that he knew it was not the story
pierre’s legitimation? do you understand that in consideration of the
pierre sighed, rose submissively, emptied his glass, and, waiting till
pierre shook his head and arms as if attacked by mosquitoes or bees.
“pierre!” she said.
pierre’s hand to show that there was no need to ask the question. he
pierre’s eyes with it and tied it in a knot behind, catching some
pierre’s eyes.
pierre seized the crossbeam, tugged, and wrenched the oak frame out with
pierre’s direction at a slight rustle made by the latter. “why have
pierre saw that borís wished to change the subject, and being of the
pierre sat up on the sofa, with his legs tucked under him.
pierre sat opposite dólokhov and nicholas rostóv. as usual, he ate and
pierre sat down with his little partner. natásha was perfectly happy;
pierre said nothing; he looked fixedly at his friend with surprise. he
pierre rubbed his forehead.
pierre rose to help him.
pierre remained gloomily silent, answering in monosyllables and
pierre recalled, counting them on his fingers, he felt already in his
pierre reaching the house first went into prince andrew’s study like
pierre quickly took out his purse and watch, but could not manage for
pierre, perplexed, looked round with his shortsighted eyes without
pierre paused, seeking a reply.
pierre, on unexpectedly becoming count bezúkhov and a rich man, felt
pierre, not knowing whom to answer, looked at them all and smiled. his
“pierre, my dear, come here. i think he will not be out of place in a
pierre murmured something unintelligible, and continued to look round as
pierre looked silently and searchingly into prince andrew’s face,
pierre looked silently and inquiringly at him over his spectacles.
pierre looked questioningly at anna mikháylovna to see what he was to
pierre looked over his spectacles with naïve surprise, now at him and
pierre looked at his friend and, noticing that he did not like the
pierre looked at her over his spectacles.
pierre listened with swelling heart, gazing into the mason’s face with
pierre listened to the colonel’s speech and nodded approvingly.
pierre leaped up from the sofa and rushed staggering toward her.
pierre knew very well what a hieroglyph was, but dared not speak. he
pierre. it seemed to him that more than half an hour had elapsed.
pierre, “i said at the time and before anyone else” (she insisted
pierre, in reply, sincerely agreed with her as to hélène’s
pierre in his secret soul agreed with the steward that it would be
pierre in his preoccupation and absent-mindedness had not recognized
pierre. he went up to him, took his hand (a thing he never used to do),
pierre heard her say:
pierre, having made up his mind to obey his monitress implicitly, moved
pierre, hardly restraining his sobs, began running toward dólokhov and
pierre had taken part in tying a policeman to a bear. he had now been
pierre had of late rarely seen his wife alone. both in petersburg and in
pierre had none of the practical persistence that would have enabled him
pierre had met in petersburg society. in the president’s chair sat a
pierre had come just at dinnertime and was sitting awkwardly in the
pierre had been educated abroad, and this reception at anna
pierre had already long been feeling in himself that refreshing source
pierre gradually began to recover himself and looked about at the room
pierre gave no answer, for he neither heard nor saw anything. he had
pierre gave her an inquiring look. she kissed the young man on his
pierre, from joy, agitation, and embarrassment, was not in a state to
pierre flushed and, hurriedly putting his legs down from the bed, bent
pierre felt uncomfortable and even depressed in his friend’s company
pierre felt that he was the center of it all, and this both pleased and
pierre felt himself far poorer than when his father had made him
pierre felt confused and wished to avoid that look, but the bright old
pierre dropped his eyes, lifted them again, and wished once more to see
pierre drank one glass after another, looking from under his brows at
pierre did not understand a word, but the conviction that all this had
pierre did not catch what they were saying, but knew they were talking
pierre could not make out what it was all about, and still less what
pierre could not go on. he gulped and turned away.
pierre could not and did not wish to break this silence.
pierre considered.
pierre clutched his temples, and turning round went into the forest,
pierre blushed, as he always did when it was mentioned, and said
pierre began describing what he had done on his estates, trying as far
pierre at the age of ten had been sent abroad with an abbé as tutor,
pierre, as in a dream, saw several men standing before him, wearing
pierre and there were lines of pain on his face and a shamefaced smile.
pierre and himself was in the room, and addressed her in a tone of
pierre, after all, had not managed to choose a career for himself in
pierre.
pierre.
pierre.
pierre.
pierre.
pierre.
piercingly. seeing prince andrew she leaned out from behind the apron
pick up the glove himself and to pass round the doctors who were not
physical things, and the fourth a combination of these. now and then
physically at that moment, there was a weight on his chest and he could
philosophizing voice with pleasure.
pe vell. and ve must discuss it as little as po-o-ossible”... he dwelt
“pétya, you’re a stupid!” said natásha.
pétya, pacing the room with large, resolute strides. “now i’m very
pétya paced the room in silence for a time.
pétya in, closed again. a sound of laughter came from behind it.
pétya! good man!” cried he, addressing pierre.
pétya, clinging to his legs, kept shouting, “and me too!”
pétya. besides that, he sent greetings to monsieur schelling, madame
pétya.
“pétrusha has come with papers from your father,” whispered the
petisenfans, allay cushay dormir!” he exclaimed, imitating his russian
petersburg to procure an appointment in the guards for her only son.
petersburg to ascertain what moscow was thinking about austerlitz.
petersburg society was assembled there: people differing widely in age
petersburg on the tenth of august, and her son, who had remained in
petersburg—no one knows who will inherit his immense fortune, pierre
petersburg. it is high time for you to get away from these terrible
petersburg. he could not imagine how he could speak to her now. he
petersburg. hand this to count willarski” (he took out his notebook
petersburg earlier or later, or whether he secured accommodation at this
petersburg. but now this head was swaying helplessly with the uneven
petersburg. anna mikháylovna, with her tear-worn but pleasant face,
petersburg and staying at his house. with apparent absent-mindedness,
petersburg, and had been expelled from there for riotous conduct and
petersburg.
person she happened to look at she was in love with for that moment.
persons, among them the elderly lady and anna pávlovna, did however
personally it would be a pleasure to hand over the supreme command
personal interview was refused, and instead of the sovereign, prince
personage he was referring to.
personage, a position in the army which seemed to him most attractive.
perseverance, but only the knowledge of how to get on with those who can
“permit me, princess, to know what is necessary and what is not
permission here in hospital, that i may not have to play the part of a
“perhaps we’d really better not wake him,” he said hesitating.
“perhaps the count did not ask for me,” said pierre when he reached
perhaps, see and take part in the first russian encounter with the
“perhaps later on i may tell you, my dear boy, that if i had not been
perhaps i may...”
perhaps dying, while meeting my remorse with some forced bravado!”
“perhaps,” coldly and angrily replied dólokhov, glancing at sónya,
perhaps because it was hard for him, hungry as he was, to look on at
perform! prussia has always declared that buonaparte is invincible, and
perfect one’s self. and to attain this end, we have the light called
perfection of manner. if he ever thought of hélène, it was just of
perception befitting a man of the world, he indicated by a movement of
people were in one of the inner rooms, not considering it necessary to
people show to everyone when they are happy.
people,” he went on, turning to anna pávlovna, “he ever was a hero,
people do understand him. he is such a lofty, heavenly soul!”
people dancing, iogel with natásha, his pride and his best pupil, were
people—businessmen, relations, and acquaintances alike—were all
“people are always too clever with their eldest children and try to
people and starting to join the army. you should have seen the state of
pensions and the same amount for asylums; 150,000 alimony was sent to
peculiar to pregnant women. it was evident that her eyes did not see
peculiarly deliberate steps. this feeling of disdain was heightened
peculiarities of his reserved nature, borís had managed during his
peculiar form of beauty. everyone brightened at the sight of this pretty
peasant, or a woman with a baby, has no rest day or night and i give
pearls on their bare shoulders, looked at themselves in the brilliantly
peace. the old man was beside himself: moved the chair on which he was
peace.”
payments had been diminished by a third, their obligatory manorial work
paying off the debts and undertaking new activities with serf labor,
pay. i can tell you for myself...”
pávlovna threatened him on behalf of “our dear vyazmítinov,” and
pávlovna’s words and looks when she spoke to him about his house,
pávlovna’s was the first he had attended in russia. he knew that all
pávlovna’s voice, “i see you are all right there.”
pávlovna’s usual pink notes with an invitation to which was added:
pávlovna’s hand, and screwing up his eyes scanned the whole company.
pávlovna’s hand and for some reason drawing it downwards. “arrange
pávlovna, shaking her little shriveled finger at him.
pávlovna’s drawing room he considered an important step up in the
pávlovna’s, an unacknowledged sense of the guilt of that desire
pávlovna, looking up pensively.
pávlovna had had a cough for some days. she was, as she said, suffering
pávlovna: “educate this bear for me! he has been staying with me
pávlovna again touched pierre’s sleeve, saying: “i hope you won’t
pávlovna.
pávlograd commander. the commanders met with polite bows but with
pausing. “the only question is what will come of the meeting between
pause, “she told him she loved another.”
paused. “i am going because the life i am leading here does not suit
pause after this mot to give time for its due appreciation. “the
paul was a market village where a fair was held on st. peter’s day,
paul had exiled him to his country estate had lived there continuously
patted his favorite, rostóv, on the shoulder.
patroness. she added that her majesty had deigned to show baron funke
patronage at the dancers.
path of virtue,” said the mason.
pathetic smile, as though she too knew that count rostóv deserved this
past the ladies into the little drawing room. with quick steps he went
past the company, and overtook the carriage, still keeping time to the
pass the three officers quite easily, but zherkóv, pushing nesvítski
passion,” said the latter.
passion but in your own heart. the source of blessedness is not without
passionately repents. i will do all i can to arrange the match between
passionately once more to enjoy that dissipation he was so accustomed to
passionately fond of the boy, and princess mary often deprived herself
passionately, at which she laughed; at the other could be heard the
passionately and tenderly, and old mary ivánovna, who had grown fond of
passing it across hélène’s back. hélène stooped forward to make
passing by kutúzov’s carriage and the exhausted saddle horses of
passing, but before he had finished his greeting there was a general
passing between the companies that had been eating porridge and drinking
passing behind one of the lines of a regiment of foot guards he heard a
passing bagratión and racing one another they rushed in an irregular
passed, the pávlograd division was ordered to advance. in wischau
passed out by a back door, but returned to their places one after the
passed in step before the emperors and their suites at a bold, brisk
passed his time very gaily. after a short period of adapting himself
party at which pierre had to be present unless he wished to spoil
part of his mind her image rose in all its womanly beauty.
part of his legs; he had on a kind of necklace above which rose a high
partner’s hand firmly, threw back his head, and advanced his foot,
partly because prince andrew did not always feel equal to bearing with
partly because of the depressing memories associated with bald hills,
part in it, but also by the joyful expression on the faces of soldiers,
parties, wearing a dress such as was then fashionable, cut very low at
particularly vivid, humiliating, and shameful was the recollection of
     particularly victorious.”
particularly striking among all these drunken voices by its sober
particularly on the word possible... “as po-o-ossible,” he ended,
particularly discontented and out of temper. whether he was in a bad
particularly calm and absent-minded way, which inspired the respect of
particularly agreeable before going away. besides this he was
particularly addicted), he regarded even this not as a defect but as a
particular emphasis as if in it lay the gist of the matter.
part from his horse, and at last sprang down and called to his orderly.
part. anna pávlovna schérer on the contrary, despite her forty years,
paris. it was not calculation that guided her (she did not even for a
parents who have petted their children from babyhood, but which prince
“pardon me! a snuffbox with the emperor’s portrait is a reward but
pardon. as soon as rostóv heard them, an enormous load of doubt
paralyzed his will.
parade... i am the first to apologize, you know me!... he was very
parade. however, i will let you know.”
papers and still taking no notice of the special messenger.
papers and it was the first time he had heard villeneuve’s name.
paper. he looked gloomily in rostóv’s face and said: “i am witing
paper and her hand moved rapidly over it. this is the reply she wrote,
papa, which natásha, and which pétya. everyone shouted, talked, and
“papa, we shall be late,” said princess hélène, turning her
“papa,” said his beautiful daughter in the same tone as before,
“papa! pa-pa!” he called after him, sobbing, “forgive me!” and
“papa, i have come on a matter of business. i was nearly forgetting. i
pallid and quivered.
pale, with quivering lips, pierre snatched the copy.
pale, with compressed lips and feverishly glittering eyes.
pale on seeing her father-in-law.
pale, now blushed and strained every nerve to overhear what nicholas
pale face and glittering eyes.
pale and then blushing.
pale and his jaw trembled, shivering feverishly. he was placed on
pale, and added, “look at it, young man.”
palace in a manner agreeable to yourself, and in so far as circumstances
painstaking effect that had been in it before; but she did not yet sing
painful to him at this moment of sorrow; besides, what can i say to him
pacing angrily about and snorting. the old prince felt as though he
paces, and nicholas could clearly distinguish every detail of his
pace.
own ideas tonight, but must yield himself up entirely to the will of
own eyes she comforted the count, and decided that at dinner and till
owner of one of the largest fortunes in russia, i am much amused to
own breast, the husband standing by and gazing tenderly at her and the
own about the facts he was recounting. for some time he engrossed the
owing to the terrible uproar and the necessity for concentration and
owed him money! what baseness! what meanness! i know you understand
over the squadron. rostóv raised his saber, ready to strike, but at
over their heads, unstrapping their overcoats and drawing the sleeves on
over the enns, and then guessed that the card that came first to hand
over the battlefield had given final orders to strengthen the batteries
over, the adjutant he had seen the previous day ceremoniously informed
overtaking the battalions that continued to advance, he stopped
overtaken by the enemy and fighting rearguard actions only as far as
over. it will be a tremendous banquet.”
over his spectacles, and then again resuming his walk, muttering
over his shoulder, as when rostóv had seen him on the eve of the battle
over his shoulder.
overflow with sick, and famine is everywhere. twice the marauders even
“overflowing with amiability. his position has not turned his head
overflowed with animation and impulsiveness. to be an enthusiast had
overcome a certain secret sorrow that has been in my heart ever since
over beamed with irrepressible delight.) “it’s in the emperor’s
over,” anna pávlovna continued. “the sovereigns will not be able to
over, and come back in an hour and tell me in his presence: yes or no.
over.” and after stumbling a few staggering steps right up to the
over a fire brigade of bonaparte’s, that will be another story and
out whether she was considering what he had just said or whether she was
out until, at the first pause, the guests rise with a rustle of dresses
out the stinging and tormenting thoughts that confused his mind. “this
out there... both playing the hero... ah, vasíli ignátovich...
out. the fences and gates were new and solid; two fire pumps and a
out skirmishers. he had felt perfectly sure that there were other troops
outside his uniform.
outright.
outposts today and it is impossible to say where his chief forces are
out over the fire, and not waiting for an answer he gave a grunt and
out of this position; that here was the toulon that would lift him from
out of it. they could not understand that i have not the necessary
out of hearing. another musket missed fire but flashed in the pan.
out of countenance himself or making others uncomfortable, but as
out. mack loses a whole army, the archduke ferdinand and the archduke
outlines. dressed as she used to be in petersburg society, it was still
out like cords. “you are mad, i tell you. i won’t allow it.
out in front of a platoon of grenadiers before whom lay a naked man. two
out his notebook and, leaning on the cannon, sketched a plan of the
out her cambric handkerchief she began wiping her husband’s waistcoat.
out from behind the clouds, and the clear sound of the solitary shot
out everyone has been enraptured by her? they say she is amazingly
out as a post horse, but still i must have a talk with you, catiche, a
out a notebook, hurriedly scribbled something in pencil, tore out the
out and the sabers whizzed as they were drawn from their scabbards.
out accidently.”
out about him.
out:
out.
our turn next.”
our troops were known to him as far as they could be known to anyone
our troops had descended and from whence came the sounds of firing.
our thoughts to the second, bonaparte. but as it turns out, just at
‘our sovereign, the emperor,’ as they say at official dinners,”
“ours,” kissing his finger tips.
ourselves, were growing up and dying with no idea of god and truth
ourselves, dear prince,” said the little princess (of course, in
ourselves.”
    * ours.
our present, depraved world. no one now loves virtue; it seems like
our people...”
our order can bestow it will render you, my dear sir. you are going to
our officers and men at austerlitz. one had saved a standard, another
our officers.”
“our men have been wasting time.”
our men had begun firing. they were still firing, not at the cavalry
our members as much as possible to reform their hearts, to purify and
our infantry were stationed there, and at the farthest point the
our hearts are united by indissoluble bonds, my heart rebels against
our hands! no, we mustn’t forget suvórov and his rule—not to put
our fine speeches and in his rude and savage way throws himself on the
our enemies! hurrah!” he exclaimed in his dashing, old, hussar’s
our dear count vrbna, goes to him for orders.”
our aid,” said kutúzov.
“oui, madame,” replied he, looking around him.
ought to know where they are, and must find them, because...”
ought to go straight to him and give the message dolgorúkov had ordered
ought to be, now he fancied it was only something in his own eyes. his
other young ladies in begging natásha and nicholas, who were noted for
otherwise. to tell them that she felt ashamed for herself and for them
other virtues—love of his neighbor, and especially generosity.
others. “well, you old sinner,” she went on, turning to the count
others, only now have i understood all the happiness of life. no, i
other soldiers. he stood looking about him, when suddenly he heard a
other’s hands, kissing them and pulling them away, and again began
others appreciated prince hippolyte’s social tact in so agreeably
others and, in shirt sleeves and breeches, went glass in hand to the
others and even from herself, the stronger it grew. “o god,” she
others.”
others...”
other officers. perhaps i ought not to have spoken before them, but i am
other officer; he’ll say: ‘go and find out what’s there.’ there
other lady visitors were farther down. at the other end sat the count,
other had ridden up to him.
other fare, was splendid, yet he could not feel quite at ease till the
other before the service was concluded. pierre paid no more attention
other, awkwardly, like a child at a dancing lesson.
other.”
ostralitz. in the large drawing room which had become the commander
or you as having been at all insulted, and as a man older than you, my
or whether some other thought flitted across his dying brain, at any
or two in his head but dozens, some only beginning to form themselves,
or prince vasíli. forty thousand serfs and millions of rubles! i know
or of the necessity of rebuilding factories and workshops. so the first
or make out anything of what was happening: there in the smoke men of
orlóv never gave such a dinner as ours will be!”
or kutúzov was. some said the report that the emperor was wounded was
or he would suddenly feel ashamed of he knew not what. he felt it
or gray horses; then again, spreading out with the brazen clatter of the
or even to wish to be thought to listen. exactly opposite weyrother,
ordinary staid and respectful good manners habitual in the prince’s
order. you are causing me to lose the fruits of a campaign. break
order to make borís’ better acquaintance, promised to come to dinner,
orders which showed that the russian troops, who had hitherto been
orders to the club steward and to the famous feoktíst, the club’s
orders to admit no more, but the porter was told to be sure to invite to
orders the sergeant to be arrested. come, you must own that this affair
orders by heart and know the regulations as well as i do the lord’s
orders, and the star of st. george on his left breast. evidently just
orders.
order of maria theresa on his neck and a black bandage round his head,
order not to lose his head and do foolish things he must not act on his
orderly to the bravest general, and still more, he was going with a
orderly, running behind the cart and fumbling in the back of it.
orderly by the shoulders and knocking him against the wall.
ordered to turn back to the right. several thousand cavalry crossed in
ordered the horses to be harnessed. only those things he always kept
ordered his horse at once and, coldly taking leave of borís, rode
order.
ordeal was about to begin.
ordained that the austrian army should maneuver the previous year on the
or cap, his head was bandaged, and over his shoulder a french munition
“or are you afraid to play with me?” dólokhov now asked as if
or appreciative according to the way the joke was received. everybody
or anybody; but you are free to choose.... go to your room, think it
opposite. pierre spoke little but examined the new faces, and ate a
opposite pierre and seemed very gay. rostóv was talking merrily to his
opposite, in front of which large masses of french were advancing.
opportunity to express his own views, as young people are fond of doing.
opportunity since morning to meet one another alone. when princess mary
opportunity of joining in the general current of recollections.
opinions, but you see what a capital, good-natured fellow i am.” and
opinion,” said she, turning to the young man who, having come quite
operations according to him were connected with such complicated
open it. someone was holding it shut.
opened the door which moved noiselessly and easily. she paused at the
opened the bedroom door.
opened eyes. “what has happened to her? how she is singing today!”
“oooh! for christ’s sake let me alone!” cried the wounded man, but
on you. you complain of our separation. what then should i say, if i
on which with a broken bit of chalk he had written “800 rubles” in
on which rostóv sat.
on what he thought right. the steward promised to do all in his power to
    * “on vous fera danser.”
“on tuesday between eight and nine. it will give me great pleasure.”
on this high ground, shall withdraw the left flank under its cover, and
on the way to his sister’s room, in the passage which connected one
on the way home, prince andrew could not refrain from asking kutúzov,
on the unattractive martyrlike expression it so often wore, as she
on the twenty-eighth of october kutúzov with his army crossed to the
on the twelfth of november, kutúzov’s active army, in camp before
on the top of her head (a style that quite altered and spoiled her
on the third day after christmas nicholas dined at home, a thing he had
on the table, again bound his eyes.
on the soft springs of the carriage, he turned to prince andrew.
on the snow.
“on the same business. but you are damp! let me wring you out!”
on. the preoccupation and despondency which pierre had noticed in his
on the pratzen heights, where he had fallen with the flagstaff in his
on the other side, the children, tutors, and governesses. from behind
on the other an immense case containing icons, was brightly illuminated
on the opposite side the enemy could be seen by the naked eye, and from
on the morning of the day that the young couple were to arrive, princess
‘on the march’ it meant in greatcoats?” said he reproachfully to
on the little princess’ face, an expression of childish fear of
on the high ground where the enemy was, the smoke of a cannon rose,
on the ground.
on the french side, amid the groups with cannon, a cloud of smoke
on the first arrival of the news of the battle of austerlitz, moscow had
on the field before the fortress. now thousands of feet and bayonets
on the field.
on the evening of the last day’s march an order had been received that
on the eighteenth and nineteenth of november, the army advanced two
on the cot.
on the contrary, they stimulated his energy and determination.
“on the contrary, that coiffure suits the princess very well,” said
“on the contrary,” replied the prince, who had plainly become
on the contrary it gave her an unnatural, and therefore unpleasant,
“on the contrary,” he said, in a querulous and angry tone that
on the arm said:
on the arm of a colonel of hussars, a man of importance to them because
“on the 4th, the first courier arrives from petersburg. the mails
on that third of march, all the rooms in the english club were filled
on—that pierre became quite bewildered and only replied:
on snowy-white smooth pillows, evidently freshly changed, pierre
on seeing rostóv before him, with whom he would inevitably collide.
on returning from the review, kutúzov took the austrian general into
on retiring to her own room, she sat in an armchair, her eyes fixed on a
on reaching the village he dismounted and went to the nearest house,
on reaching petersburg pierre did not let anyone know of his arrival,
on purpose to vex us. the archduke karl does nothing, the archduke
on our right flank commanded by bagratión, at nine o’clock the battle
on october 11, the day when all was astir at headquarters over the news
on october 11, 1805, one of the infantry regiments that had just reached
on november 1 kutúzov had received, through a spy, news that the army
“on my honor!”
only when prince andrew was gone did rostóv think of what he ought to
only when approaching bagratión did rostóv let his horse gallop again,
only to express his rapture fully.
“only that?” said bolkónski.
only that all the men of the day were mere babies who did not know the
only telling you what it is. napoleon has also formed his plan by now,
“only take care you and your cossacks are not all captured!” said
only sure happiness in life.”
only sónya, nicholas, and natásha, but even the old countess,
only pressed it to the cold braiding of his hussar’s jacket. denísov,
only now, when he was confronted by the stern authorities, did his guilt
only lit fires to deceive us.
“only let me report this gentleman’s business, and i shall be at
only his eyes were brighter than usual.
only help a bit! i must have singers too. i shall have my own orchestra,
only heard dólokhov’s hurried steps, and his figure came in view
“only fools and rakes fall ill, my boy. you know me: i am busy from
only covered by her garments. and having once seen this he could not
only change being that the words “father kámenski” were replaced by
only by the elite.
only bivouacking here and have just come to look round. i am going back
only betrayed us three times in three years. we take up their cause, but
only because i still hope to meet such a divine creature, who will
only a small lamp was burning inside something white. pierre went nearer
onlookers for what was to follow. as soon as the provocatively gay
on kutúzov’s staff, among his fellow officers and in the army
on!” innumerable voices suddenly shouted after the ball had struck
on in his usual tone of indifference.
on horseback facing the ditch. one with a white plume in his hat seemed
on his thin bony legs, and keeping on a worn, nankeen-covered, sheepskin
on his side of it.
on his seat, lowered his hands, moved a little to the right and then to
on his saber, and put on his cap.
on his return to moscow from the army, nicholas rostóv was welcomed
on his pupil’s behalf. that’s how it’s to be understood! ‘how
on his arm as if that touch might soothe or rouse him.
on him without changing their expression. “i love you all and have
on him. the empress’ chamberlain invited him to see her majesty. the
on himself. he could remain silent for hours without being at all put
on him by the doctors, clergy, and relatives of the family. prince
on her toes any longer. “so that’s what i’m up to! i’ll never
on her priority) “that that senseless young man was spoiled by the
on her lips, she got up and left the room. all nicholas’ animation
on her face.
on hélène’s name day, a small party of just their own people—as
on hearing the news was one of anger with sónya.... he tried to say,
on hearing of the arrival of the letter went softly into the room and
on! go on!” and cries of horror were heard in the crowd. the soldiers
on february 26, 1807, the old prince set off on one of his circuits.
one would not need finesse; and he tells me that i am lying—so let him
one would have to... the metropolitan himself... and even then it
one would have thought it impossible for a man to stretch himself
one would have expected of him.
one word after another, came through the open door. she was speaking as
one.... whom, i ask you, can we rely on?... england with her commercial
one was on a white horse. prince bagratión and prince dolgorúkov with
“one was damaged,” answered the staff officer, “and the other i
“o-ne! t-wo! thwee!” he shouted angrily and stepped aside.
“one thing i thank god for is that i did not kill that man,” said
“one thing i ask of your excellency,” dólokhov said in his firm,
“one step beyond that boundary line which resembles the line dividing
one spot. his predictions were being justified. part of the russian
one side of which symbolized god, another moral things, a third
“one should make up to the husbands of pretty women,” said denísov.
(one shattered gun and one unicorn were left behind), prince andrew rode
one seldom finds nowadays among our old men of twenty and, particularly,
one reviews the past and plans for the future. prince andrew’s face
one quite at home, and from habit immediately lay down on the sofa, took
one pair at each window. she stopped and smiled scornfully. sónya was
one. “oh, this senseless life of ours!” thought nicholas. “all
one of the players said he hoped he might be trusted.
one of the next arrivals was a stout, heavily built young man with
one of them was leading by the bridle a fine large french horse he had
one of them was a sallow, clean-shaven civilian with a thin and wrinkled
one of them knew, not one of them wanted to know, and not one of them
one of the lodges over the road purposely laden with snow.
one of the hindmost guns that was going onto the dam turned off onto the
one of the guests. “the vicomte is a wonderful raconteur,” said she
one of the Ápsheron regiment went forward past the emperor.
one of disdain which was quite uncalled for. his fertile mind instantly
“one must be indulgent to little weaknesses; who is free from them,
“one must admit,” continued prince andrew, “that napoleon as a man
“one more question, count,” he said, “which i beg you to answer
“one moment, your excellency.”
one moment prayed to god as he had done on the battlefield at the bridge
one is to interfere with his arrangements—leads his division to
one i’d give my life for her! but those!...” and he made a gesture
one had put but which was always in her mind, “and how much suffering,
one foot, from the orderly and began to mount.
one foot, bounded from the floor like a ball, and flew round the room
one feels as if one were in the country.”
one day’s ration of bread remains, and in some regiments none at all,
one considers that by tomorrow one may be dead, or something so
“one can’t write so fast, your honor,” said the clerk, glancing
“one can’t everywhere say all one thinks, mon cher. well, have
“one!” came the command.
one but the emperor of russia has that right.
one another time to ask questions and give replies concerning a thousand
one another, beginning to see one another through the mist. they had the
one another.
on duty every day, or may place me under arrest, but no one can make
on condition that she should tell no one.
on cloaks or mantles, and drive away. the conversation was on the chief
once was—did not struggle, and perhaps she was right. nothing has been
once the stranger closed the book, putting in a marker, and again,
once she has said...”
once recognized it to be a tuft of grass. she was terribly close to him.
once more the conversations concentrated, the ladies’ at the one end
once he raised his eyebrows, abruptly touched his horse with his left
once for a moment of glory, of triumph over men, of love from men i
once been in to see the count. he has not sent for me.... i am sorry for
“once again, colonel,” said the general, “i can’t leave half
once.”
on both sides. behind our position was a steep and deep dip, making it
on being relieved from picket duty rostóv had managed to get a few
on at the crossing. and why are they dawdling there?”
on a sofa in a far corner of the room. he closed his eyes and seemed to
on around him. not only was he indifferent as to whether he got to
on anything. it was about this choice that prince andrew was speaking.
on all sides they saw rain-soaked officers with dejected faces who
on all sides. the countess rose and went into the ballroom.
on all sides, had stopped because a horse in front had fallen under a
on a hot dish.
on a few steps he stopped before prince andrew, who lay on his back with
on a chair in the ballroom, crossing one leg high over the other,
on account of the smoke nothing could be seen. the nearer they got to
on.
“o lord god! thou who art in that heaven, save, forgive, and protect
olmütz, was preparing to be reviewed next day by the two emperors—the
olmütz and that he wanted to see him as he had a letter and money for
olga went out. pierre stood looking at the sisters; then he bowed and
old prince understood from this official report that our army had been
old princess, kissing her soundly. “if i hadn’t this headache i’d
old prince nicholas bolkónski received a letter from prince vasíli
old prince had forbidden it, appeared on the threshold with a shawl
old miller had been accustomed to sit in his tasseled cap peacefully
old michael was asleep on the chest. prokófy, the footman, who was
old man too came up and kissed the waxen little hands that lay quietly
old man, shaking his powdered head as much as the tail, which tíkhon
old man, living alone in the country for so many years, could know and
old man continued to fold and seal his letter, snatching up and throwing
old lady next to her and glanced angrily at her daughter, and her sigh
old gabriel brought in the wine.
old fool,” he thought. “that princess hélène will be beautiful
old fellow? out of sorts?”
old father, and entering the military service, my dear. and there was a
oldest rose. márya dmítrievna paused at the door. tall and stout,
older visitors. they now, stretching themselves after sitting so long,
old count bezúkhov, and his inheritance. fancy! the three princesses
old chamberlain was heard assuring an old baroness that he loved her
old bolkónski had always had a poor opinion of prince vasíli’s
old age and tobacco, which she had known so long. “now, madam, these
“oh, your excellency!” said franz, with difficulty rolling the
“oh, you guards!” said rostóv. “i say, send for some wine.”
“oh, you fool!” said the old man, spitting angrily. some time passed
“oh, you don juan! you serpent!” cried several voices.
“oh, you damned dandies! clean and fresh as if you’d been to a fete,
“oh yes, very much! my brother knows him, he’s dined with him—the
“oh, yes!” said pierre, with a forced smile. “i am very grateful
“oh yes, like that, i know, i only forgot,” said he.
“oh yes, it is horribly stupid,” said pierre.
“oh, yes, i quite understand,” answered rostóv, who was under his
“oh yes,” assented princess mary, “perhaps that’s it. i’ll go.
“oh, yes!”
“oh, what nonsense!” cried natásha, laughing. “i don’t think
“oh, what a terrible state he is in! one would not know him, he is so
“oh, what are you talking about?” said another. “where is he to
“oh, what a pig i am, not to have written and to have given them
“oh, what a nuisance,” said dolgorúkov, getting up hurriedly and
“oh, well, well!” remarked the regimental commander. “still, one
“oh, well then, good-by: go and dress. is he very terrible,
“oh, very well, you may stay in attendance on me.”
“oh, to die, to die for him,” thought rostóv.
“oh, those moscow gossips!” said dólokhov, and he took up the cards
“oh, the faiwy! she can do anything with me!” said denísov, and
oh, that wicked prince hippolyte!” she said.
“oh, that’s it!” said rostóv, evidently thinking of something
“oh, that is dreadful, dreadful!” said pierre. “i don’t
“oh, that is all the same,” dolgorúkov said quickly, and getting up
“oh, take those off... those...” she said, pointing to his
“oh! oh! oh!” he muttered, looking down from the window at the
“oh! oh! oh!” groaned kutúzov despairingly and looked around....
“oh! oh! oh!”
“oh! oh!” groaned nesvítski as if in fierce pain, seizing the
“oh! oh!” exclaimed several voices.
“oh, nurse, i’m so glad!”
“oh, nothing,” said he, as if weary of being continually asked the
“oh no!” said iogel, hastening to reassure him. “you were only
“oh no, not at all too young!” replied the count. “why, our
“oh no, not at all! on the contrary, i am very glad to make your
“oh, no, no!” and besides the pallor and the physical suffering
“oh no, let me off, countess,” denísov replied.
“oh, natásha!” said sónya, looking ecstatically and earnestly at
“oh, my god! thank god!” said princess mary. “i must go and meet
“oh, my god! my god! schmidt!” he exclaimed in german. “what a
“oh, my dear fellow, we’re in such a stew here these last two
“oh, my bower, oh, my bower...!”
“oh, my bower new...!” chimed in twenty voices, and the castanet
“oh, little countess!” ... and the count began bustling to get out
“oh, leave off, you always talk nonsense and keep putting things
“oh, leave off!” said the accountant with a beaming but rather
“oh, it’s wetched! well, what are you standing there for, you
“oh, it’s terrible to feel oneself so in this man’s power,”
“oh, it’s nothing. i only wished to say...” (he wanted to repeat
“oh! i thought you were in your room,” she said, for some reason
“oh, i must give you a treat,” bilíbin whispered to bolkónski.
“oh, hush, please!” said another.
oh, how that chord vibrated, and how moved was something that was finest
“oh, how nice,” thought natásha; and when sónya and nicholas had
“oh, how nice, how splendid!” she said to everything.
oh, how i would guard him, how i would tell him the truth, how i would
“oh, how dreadful! how can you laugh at it, count?”
“oh, how delightful it is!” she kept saying, running up to sónya.
“oh, he’s all right, a good horse,” answered rostóv, though the
“oh, he is so kind!” answered princess mary.
“oh, he is in a dreadful state,” said the mother to her son when
“oh, heaven! how ill he is!” exclaimed the mother.
“oh, go to the devil!” called out a voice, drowned by the laughter
“oh god, what would happen to me if the emperor spoke to me?”
“oh, every bullet has its billet,” answered váska denísov, turning
“oh, don’t speak to me of austria. perhaps i don’t understand
“oh, don’t speak of his going, don’t! i won’t hear it spoken
“oh, don’t mention it, count! i quite understand,” said berg,
“oh, denísov is quite different,” replied nicholas, implying that
“oh dear, what am i thinking about? i’ve mixed everything up. one
“oh dear, what a beast i am!” muttered rostóv, as he read the
“oh, but you were there?” said prince bagratión, addressing prince
oh, andrew! what a treasure of a wife you have,” said she, sitting
of yours, is not at all to blame that my face has the misfortune to
of your misfortune.” he seemed to emphasize the last word, as if to
of you.”
of wounded pride, and a hope of glory. “and should there be nothing
of wind blowing over the army slightly stirred the streamers on the
“of whom you imagine me to be one?” said prince andrew, with a quiet
     of whom you have made a friend, but not for you, not for
of which kutúzov was standing began to shout, he rode a little to one
of weyrother’s voice, he opened his one eye with an effort.
of voices, the tramping feet, the horses’ hoofs moving in mud, the
of twenty; sónya a girl of sixteen with all the charm of an opening
of túshin’s battery. prince andrew followed with the suite. behind
of truth, my dear sir, but have thrust her into an abyss of deceit and
of those rare women with whom a man’s honor is safe; but, o god, what
of those frenchmen,” he said. “what nasty brutes they are! i’d
of this set.
of this kind for another, which from pride he would never accept for
of this delicious russian tea,” lorrain was saying with an air of
of thirteen, hiding something in the folds of her short muslin frock,
of things to him in the very worst light, pointing out the necessity of
of the wood ran out of it, the different companies getting mixed, and
of the way! make way!”
of the war that had been announced in a manifesto, and about the
of the war and without leaders. the moscovites felt that something was
of the victory that had been gained. prince andrew introduced his
of the upper lip formed a sharp wedge and closed firmly on the firm
of the unwritten code of subordination—looked so fixedly at the
of the three precepts of freemasonry pierre realized that he did not
of the third floor window with his legs hanging out.
of the third company!”
of the thabor bridge is delightful! it is not exactly stupidity, nor
of the sun. in front, far off on the farther shore of that sea of mist,
of the streams and hollows of sokolnitz and schlappanitz beyond which we
of the statutes and these remained in his mind.
of the sleigh.
of the service the voices of the priests suddenly ceased, they whispered
of these maneuvers that enabled us to escape him. buxhöwden pursues
of the second gun’s crew was “uncle”; túshin looked at him more
of the sayings and doings of their commander, the grand duke, and told
of the room. prince andrew turned to him, but the doctor gave him a
of the road were forests of different kinds, fields, and villages.
of the river.
of the president, who held a mallet in his hand. let into the wall was
of the orderlies and servants.
of the oft-repeated passage of the sonata. prince andrew stopped and
of the nineteenth march, and her downy little lip rose from old habit,
of the night. the gloom that enveloped the army was filled with their
of the newly commissioned officer were collected. anna mikháylovna,
of the nearness of the emperor francis’ black cob, nor of all that was
of them will have any meaning for me. tomorrow perhaps, even certainly,
of them forgot what was happening and what was about to happen in the
of the meal and was certain that there was some secret between her
of the majestic emperor. casually, while surveying the squadron, the
of the maids who was present. (mary bogdánovna was a midwife from the
of the lovers. “that’s happiness!”
of the lean sinewy hand, showed that the prince still possessed the
of the lathe he removed his foot from the pedal, wiped his chisel,
of the intellectual essence of petersburg,” as she herself put it.
of the hand on the dial of human history.
of the guards, a girl of fifteen, and a plump rosy-faced boy in a short
of the gospel: “in the beginning was the word and the word was with
of the general sorrow.
of the french were coming down upon them and that his regiment was in
of the frenchmen with the gunners ended, whether the red-haired gunner
of the field he stood on was well-known and familiar ground. though he
of the feebleness of age, “bolkónski!” he whispered, pointing to
of the enemy’s lines, which all day long had yielded ground to us
of the emperor like a cloud of haze across a clear sky and vanished.
of the dip in the ground at the rear was hurried and noisy, but the
of the dam, throwing two soldiers off their feet, and ran onto the
of the commander in chief’s special favor he was sent with the news of
of the colonel, nesvítski, zherkóv, and the officer from the suite.
of the club from the day it was founded. to him the club entrusted the
of the club, beset the new arrivals. count ilyá, again thrusting his
of the cannon. he heard the whistle of bullets above him unceasingly and
of the candles was focused on those two happy faces alone.
of the campfire, waving his uplifted arm.
of the boulevards whom he visited of an evening. he led the mazurka
of the behavior of the eldest princess and prince vasíli she spoke
of the azóv and podólsk infantry and the pávlograd hussars—was
of the army into the hands of a better informed and more skillful
of the advance. as soon as an austrian officer showed himself near
of the actual battlefield. they began to meet wounded men. one with a
of the action balls and shells began flying all over his regiment and
of that song.
often than at anyone else and took delight in his every movement.
often heard. “what is this?” thought prince andrew approaching the
often heard from his fellow hussars.
of speech and of the press—and only for that reason did he obtain
of sónya, who blushed and smiled unnaturally. in the midst of his talk
of sons and brothers.
of something too large and unsuited to the place, came over her face
of some dislocation and blunder spread through the ranks. how such
of smoke that had concealed the hollow, driven by a rising wind, began
of slaves? have you helped them physically and morally? no! you have
of sixteen, had been in paris and copenhagen, and now held a rather
of sixteen, evidently passionately in love with him (he did not doubt
of shots retreated. in the highest army circles from midday on the
of several thousand men could produce. the lights spread farther and
of sergéy kuzmích and at the same time his eyes glanced toward his
of,” said the princess in the same petulantly playful tone in which
of rum in his hand was approaching the window, from which the light of
of reflection are generally in a serious frame of mind. at such moments
of prussia’s consent by assault. you are so eloquent. will you give me
of prussia, in order to draw borís into the conversation.
of profound thought. the round, steady, hawk’s eyes looked before him
of pride, indolence, and ignorance. forgive me, my dear sir, but if i
of peter and paul, his patron saints. in another place the women with
of permission previously given him by kutúzov to be present at the
of other things and to look in other directions, thought only of what
of one another, and then, as if afraid of being too late, seized each
of olmütz where bolkónski had seen him for the first time abroad, but
of officers and courtiers, was riding a bobtailed chestnut mare, a
of now as the “seeker,” now as the “sufferer,” and now as the
of mingled shame and vexation.
of mind, pierre carried out an intention he had long had of visiting his
of men and horses, from the little puffs of smoke on the enemy’s side
of mack, the news of his defeat, and the thought of what lay before the
of mack’s defeat, the camp life of the officers of this squadron was
of love which pervaded the rostóv household that winter and, now after
of love and self-sacrifice. and cost what it may, i will arrange
of love and sadness. it was plain that she was following a train of
of life, with his delicate white fingers raised from the green quilt the
of lannes’ sharpshooters were already seen crossing the milldam and
of joy in his eyes, looked round him, not knowing how to answer the
of it. the only question is, has it been destroyed or not? if not, then
of its rightful king,” she concluded, trying to be amiable to the
of its honeyed firmness and softness.
of it. prince andrew” (he always spoke thus of his son) “has been
of inviting the other to take a seat beside him. pierre felt reluctant
of how to get away quickly to her own room to make out the problem in
of how beside himself and all aflame with excitement, he had flown like
of horse’s hoofs approaching at a trot along the line of hussars was
of horses had been sent up the highroad to meet the german doctor from
of his words for the solemnity of the moment, as he spoke. “i
of his whip fell on the apron of the equipage. the woman screamed
of his speech. “vous comptez vous faire des rentes sur l’état; *
of his return.
of his own, goodness only knows why, he leaves me and locks me up alone
of his mouth and winking at the count.
of his former bachelor acquaintances many were no longer in petersburg.
of his commissions and ordered the small closed carriage for her.
of his coat and looking down at him—the englishman was short—began
of his book with his old hands which from excitement he could not keep
of his appearance before her now. prince andrew went round the sofa and
of him?” not one of the innumerable speeches addressed to the emperor
of him, listened to him, admired, and imitated him, and with them prince
of him—at the battery. he now saw clearly the figure of a red-haired
of her worthlessness he was also dreaming of how she would be his
of her saint’s-day fete, turned away at once and addressed herself to
of her neutrality and draw her into the war; how part of that army was
of her most august majesty the empress márya fëdorovna. pierre felt
of hélène. some, as if unwilling to distract her from an important
of hearts with a torn corner, which he had picked up from the floor. he
of hearts. on the previous sunday the old count had given his son
of having been dutiful et tout ce qui s’ensuit!* that’s certain.”
of habit said things he did not even wish to be believed.
of fugitives, prince andrew, trying to keep near kutúzov, saw on the
of for a single moment during the whole service. he judged by the
off on the line of kutúzov’s retreat. if he reached znaim before the
of fire and had descended into the dip, he was met by some of the staff,
official appointed to the province in which the prince’s estate lay
officer, with a smile to bolkónski.
officer, that he would drink a bottle of rum sitting on the outer ledge
officers who had gathered at his quarters. the little old man with
officers who had been standing together rode off to their places. the
officers were counting the men, poking the last man in each section in
officer’s remark was just and that really no answer could be made to
officers. now what was the colonel to do? have the officer tried and
officers, generals, and adjutants, as they passed rostóv going or
officer sends for auersperg; these gentlemen embrace the officers, crack
officers,” continued the staff captain, “and bogdánich” (the
officers buttoned up their coats, buckled on their swords and pouches,
officers, but every soldier with his freshly washed and shaven face and
officers became animated. the guardsmen told rostóv of their march and
officer!” said bagratión to rostóv, “are the enemy’s skirmishers
officers.
officer pointing to the soldiers. “the officers don’t keep them in
officer passing by addressed him:
officer of the suite by the arm. “look! a man has fallen! fallen,
officer joined in the colonel’s appeals, but bagratión did not reply;
officer in the white uniform of the horse guards.
officer in the semënov regiment with whom borís was to travel to join
officer in charge of transport was beating the soldier who was driving
officer has stolen...”
officer as in a looking glass—started, moved forward, and answered:
officer arrived, but at a sign resumed his measured, monotonous pacing.
officer and a wounded hero, would it be right to remind him of herself
officer.”
off his eyes and glanced around him. the room was in black darkness,
off his courage, had ridden on to the planks of the bridge:
off his cloak.
offered a most striking contrast to his quiet, little wife. it was
offensive, the plan of which, carefully prepared in accord with the
offend me. really i have some,” rostóv repeated.
offended tone.
of fellow. as for the past two years people have amused themselves
of fear for his young and happy life, possessed his whole being. rapidly
off completely and surround his exhausted army of forty thousand, and he
off at every moment. they waited and listened.
of fate and the designs of rogues. during the few days he spent in
off—and this is what comes of it!” said prince andrew in an
off, and the firing had begun to subside. suddenly, near by on the
off; and here at last was a russian prince. mademoiselle bourienne knew
of face, evidently worn out with childbearing—she had had twelve.
of expression on his face. now his forehead would pucker into deep folds
of expression and intonation that obliged one to listen to each
of exasperation. “don’t you hear it’s his majesty the emperor’s
of everything. one must think of the future, of all of you... i love you
of eternal peace and blessedness?” she thought.
of england, inspired by such hatred of our nation! this victory will
of each shot, as at the word of command, the whole squadron with its
of each.
of dread was in the air. it was evident that the affair so lightly begun
of disease without help while material assistance could so easily be
of delighted amazement.
of deep bass voices, and in the intervals sighs and the shuffling of
of cruelty, as when tying the policeman to the bear and dropping them
of cowardice in the other. both passed the examination successfully. as
“of course. what is it?”
“of course, we only just missed one another,” said the staff
“of course, it is a very brilliant match, but happiness, my dear...”
“of course. i’m going into action! i’ve shaved, bwushed my teeth,
of count bezúkhov’s death. she said the count had died as she would
of contempt. “and believe me, if i still value my life it is
of communications, recross the river lower down, and frustrate his
of command.
of columns from russia, of some victory gained by the austrians, and of
of cavalry came up and disappeared in the sea of mist. in front and
of capacity for philosophical meditation (to which he himself was
of bonaparte, encountering a population that was unfriendly to it,
of bonaparte.
of blessedness which now flooded his heart with glad emotion.
of birds.
of believing in the possibility of attaining perfection, and in the
of being afraid roused him again. “i cannot be afraid,” thought he,
of beginning anew pictured to himself the blissful, irreproachable,
of battles was evidently culminating in a panic.
of bagratión’s detachment. his hussars were placed along the line
of awe and even servility. a deference such as he had never before
of austerlitz: nine tenths of the men in the russian army were then in
of austerlitz, but wore a tight new uniform with russian and foreign
of a surgeon who has just performed a difficult operation and admits the
of a subject, she did not stop talking, but chattered about the
of assurance and haste, pierre concluded that it was all absolutely
of a sin he could neither remedy nor forget. he could not weep. the
of a ruling prince, in a crown—an alleged descendant of rúrik and
of a pleasure, and obliges me to interrupt you. i am very sorry to leave
of a parade. we had expected, as i told you, to get at their rear by
of an immense fortune. the will has not yet been opened. i know you
of, and am going to rejoin my regiment, i am giving a farewell supper
of an attack spread through the squadron. the command to form up rang
of amusement which someone for some reason had to provide for him.
of a man who enjoys life and knows how to live, he swayed to and
of alms” went round to all the brothers. pierre would have liked
of all. this gift will be a pledge of your purity of heart to her whom
of all these brilliant young men.
of all that mass of huge and handsome men, of all those brilliant,
of a gun at ismail.
of a girl, but i like her.”
of affairs?” concluded his father. “but it troubles me. i don’t
of a battle but also disbelieved in the nearness of an engagement.
o’erpassed,” said an old priest to a lady who had taken a seat
odýntsova had married an old man, and that there was a suitor for mary,
o’clock left the third column with which he had been and galloped
o’clock all had been brought into due order. the ranks were drawn
occurred to his regiment, but in reality he did not himself know what
occurred to him, though the question he was about to ask was the chief
occurred to him. on the contrary, he became more and more elated. it
occupy the position and prepare for an attack.”
occupy is a strong one, and while they are marching to go round me on
occupied with evening parties, dinners, lunches, and balls, giving him
occupied. he was himself always occupied: writing his memoirs, solving
occupied by the emperors and their retinues.
occupation of the town of wischau and the capture of a whole french
occupation, came up to her for a moment and made haste to go away,
occasioned by the sausage eaters.
occasionally drew it down to meet the lower lip. as is always the case
obviously trying to restrain within the bounds of decorum the excitement
obviously strange to her to think that this stern handsome man should be
obtained through an acquaintance and sent to her son, asking him to take
obtained his captaincy during the campaign, had gained the confidence of
obtain a post on the commander in chief’s staff. berg and borís,
obligingly took the dish from bagratión (or he would, it seemed, have
objects mentioned by the rhetor, this last, that of improving mankind,
object it is necessary that... the first column marches... the second
object above his head and, holding it there for some seconds, suddenly
obeying, and suddenly doubts arose in his mind. “where am i? what am
obedient, and insignificant atom. they followed prince dolgorúkov out
obedience—which did not even seem to him a virtue, but a joy. (he now
nurse’s french, at which he and borís used to laugh long ago.
nurse sávishna, knitting in hand, was telling in low tones, scarcely
nursery.”
nurse, praskóvya sávishna, who hardly ever came to that room as the
nurse and nurse sávishna in the late princess’ rooms and princess
number one jumped briskly aside. the gun rang out with a deafening
number of men had perished in fleeing from pratzen. the french had not
“no, you’ll never manage him that way,” said anatole. “wait a
“no, you know it’s too soon for news. but my father is anxious and i
“no, you don’t understand!”
“now you, young prince, what’s your name?” said prince bolkónski,
“now you don’t know that at all!” said nicholas. “but i must
now, when my heart fails me and my mouth feels dry at the mere sight
“now what does this mean, gentlemen?” said the staff officer, in
now we shall get anything we want from his hothouses. i have to see him
now was evidently ready with a joke. “whether tomorrow brings
“now, véra, what does it matter to you?” said natásha in defense,
now to look at dólokhov, who was sitting opposite him. every time
now told about that affair!”
“now thou hast seen the lesser light,” uttered a voice. then the
now,” thought rostóv driving his spurs into rook and letting him go
now the smile of the little princess—influenced by the general mood
now there’s this recruiting.”
“now then, you devil’s puppet, look alive and hunt for it!”
“now then, váska,” said nicholas.
“now then, now then, i’m only joking!” he said. “remember this,
“now then, matvévna, dear old lady, don’t let me down!” he was
“now then, let’s see how far it will carry, captain. just try!”
“now then, go on, go on!” incited the officer, bending forward and
“now then, go away and take your monstrosity with you,” said the
now then, darling! how will she take that si? she’s taken it! thank
“now the fun begins,” thought anatole, sitting down with a smile
“now, sónya!” she said, going to the very middle of the room, where
“now, sídorov, you have a try!”
now,” said another.
now rose and took their leave. the visitor’s daughter was already
“now?” repeated natásha, and a happy smile lit up her face. “have
now permissible; “the door to the left, ma’am.”
now on one side, now on the other, giving his face an unpleasant
“now look out for the ball... we’ll throw it back.”
“now i see it all! i know who has been intriguing—i know!” cried
“now i must disclose to you the chief aim of our order,” he said,
“now i am all right,” she said, and asking the vicomte to begin, she
now he was a lieutenant of hussars, in a jacket laced with silver, and
nowhere to hunt with your dogs? but what is to be done, old man? just
nowhere encountering the enemy. on the contrary, the soldiers became
“no! what kind, márya dmítrievna? what kind?” she almost screamed;
“no! what is there to talk about?” said pierre. “it’s all the
now gradually opening before me.” but five of the other virtues which
“now, dear boy,” said prince vasíli playfully, “say ‘yes,’
“now come, come! be reasonable. i know your excellent heart.”
now centered round the emperor. so we will go to dolgorúkov; i have to
now before i am off duty. i’ll take another turn and when i get back
now at her, moved as if about to rise too, but changed his mind.
now approached the sick man with the noiseless step of one in full vigor
“no, wait, pierre! the princess is too kind to wish to deprive me of
now aiming, now counting the charges, now giving orders about replacing
“now about your family. do you know that since your daughter came
now.”
novosíltsev, prince volkónsky, strógonov, and the others, all richly
novelty she offered her guests this time was not mortemart, but a
not you! go back or i’ll flatten you into a pancake,” repeated he.
not yet dispersed before another puff appeared, followed by a report.
“not yet. but where are you off to?”
not worse than this one.”
notwithstanding this, borís embraced him in a quiet, friendly way and
notwithstanding the tone of wearied assurance with which these words
not wish it. in a word, i make no promise. and i beg you to consider
not what he had read that vexed him, but the fact that the life out
not wanted here? go to the other girls, or...”
not venture to ask any questions, and shut the door again, now sitting
not used to it. she will retaliate. and she has been fooled in the
not understand what he ought to do then it will be my affair—yes, my
not two minutes had passed before prince vasíli with head erect
not to notice one another. when having limbered up the only two cannon
not to have to repent is not enough. i lived like that, i lived for
not to challenge bolkónski. “of course not!” he now thought. “is
“not that either. that puts the court in too bad a light,” replied
not ten times wounded, killed, or betrayed, well... what then?...”
not suit in the least. not in the least! please change it.”
not see ten paces ahead. bushes looked like gigantic trees and level
not see or understand him and may not see or understand his own vileness
“not seen duport—the famous dancer? well then, you won’t
not see him at all.”
not rise. rostóv also tried to rise but fell back, his sabretache
not right.”
not resume your former way of life. and now i wish you a good journey,
not replying to the austrian.
not realize that he had come. his coming had nothing to do with
not only without interest but even as if ashamed of what pierre was
“not only occupied, but bonaparte is at schönbrunn, and the count,
“not on any account!” exclaimed rostóv.
“no, to kill a man is bad—wrong.”
not moving a muscle.
“not more stupid than you, madam,” said the nine-year-old pétya,
not many left alive. go that way, to that village, all the commanders
not love liberty and equality? even our saviour preached liberty and
not listening to it continued to dress while walking about, and three
not like us sinners of the line,” cried rostóv, with martial swagger
not letting the abbé and pierre escape, anna pávlovna, the more
“not let the wife have him?” said the old man, and laughed.
not leave the battery. he decided to have the guns removed from their
“not kutúzov, but what’s his name—well, never mind... there are
not knowing whether it would be proper to call the dying man “the
not knowing what to do, and glanced inquiringly at his guide. anna
not know him, but he is here, he is in me, he is in my words, he is in
not know: he therefore wished to speak to dolgorúkov.
“not killed—wounded!” another officer corrected him.
not, it was decided at a consultation between the battalion commanders
“not in the least,” replied the vicomte. “after the murder of the
not intend to devote her life to serving prince bolkónski, to reading
no time to ask himself whether these people were sincere or not. he
no time. i hope, my dear friend, you will carry out your father’s
no time for reflection, as in petersburg. instead of the new life he had
not ill-spent. he is worth it!”
noticing what a bad state of things it was. the regimental commander
noticed the look of terror with which pierre regarded that lifeless arm,
noticed the french appearing below them, and then they fired grapeshot
noticed that they had not come to the front entrance but to the back
noticed that he was pale and that his jaw quivered and shook as if in an
noticed, left the room with a pleasant smile.
noticeable one at the dinner. rostóv looked inimically at pierre,
“not hurt, petróv?” asked one.
nothing when they have no powers; this one had none.... the austrians
nothing to him.... “i should perhaps have done the same thing in his
nothing to be happy about!” thought he.
nothing. she felt that sónya was speaking the truth, that there was
“nothing... only i feel sad... sad about andrew,” she said, wiping
“nothing... only a shell...” he answered.
nothing of what was going on around him and to be absorbed by some
“nothing of the sort. orders are issued for a battle.”
nothing of her and looks only at bourienne. no, she has no pride... but
nothing, nothing, nothing! no, don’t marry, my dear fellow; don’t
“nothing, my dear.”
nothing more important...” he paused, “than to have a good sleep.”
nothing is so necessary for a young man as the society of clever
nothing. i am very amiable and have a caustic wit,” continued prince
nothing could be seen. pitch-dark, brother! isn’t there something to
nothing, but that. but even it does not exist, there is nothing but
nothing but meanness, deceit, envy, intrigue, and ingratitude—the
nothing, but here on the one hand the local nobility have done me the
“nothing,” answered princess mary, looking firmly with her radiant
nothing about it and have not thought about it. moscow is chiefly busy
nothing about firing it.”
nothing.
“no, there is no change. i only came to have a talk about business,
not have caused him to expect that honor. the prince, who generally kept
not go to any large gatherings, but only to small receptions. prince
not forsake him. he will fulfill his vocation and crush the hydra of
not finding the young prince in his study the valet went with the
not far from the artillery campfire, in a hut that had been prepared
not expect you today,” he added. “i only sent you the note yesterday
not expecting to come on the enemy down by the stream, and having
not exist.
not evince the least interest during this explanation, but as if he were
“no, tell them to harness.”
note. i am in such a state.... my only hope now is in count cyril
noted them down.
not disfigured by the approach of death. it was the same as pierre
not? delightful!”
not come and brought his pupil with him” (for some reason prince
not captured.” again he pondered. “i am very glad you have brought
not, but you have no grounds for telling me so. and that is the whole
not but tremble and his heart stand still at the imminence of that word.
not but believe in the sincerity of those around him. besides, he had
not breathe. he knew that he must do something to put an end to this
“not bound to endure insults,” dólokhov concluded in loud, ringing
“not bonaparte. he is the emperor! sacré nom...!” cried he angrily.
not been found nor was he on the list of prisoners. what was worst of
not attract a moment’s attention to their own evolutions and did not
not at once raise, and he spent most of his time in the girls’ room.
“not at all,” said prince andrew.
“not at all bad!” he thought, examining her, “not at all bad, that
not answer. the hussar at that moment noticed the face of the red-nosed
not a logical answer and not at all a reply to them. the answer was:
“not all, for you will not be there; not all,” said prince hippolyte
“no talking in the ranks!... no talking, no talking!”
not a distinction,” said the diplomatist—“a gift, rather.”
not a diplomatist. that’s why i joined the hussars, thinking that here
no such reminiscences really exist—just as none existed in this case.
nostitz, the austrian general occupying the advanced posts, believed
“no, sónya, but do you remember so that you remember him perfectly,
no sky but only an atmosphere.”
“no? she is very nice and kind and, above all, she’s much to be
nose. his face was depressed and gloomy. he seemed to see and hear
no restrictions whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use
“no really, my dear, this dress is not pretty,” said lise, looking
“no—promise that you will not refuse! it will give you no trouble
“no, princess, i have lost your affection forever!” said
“no, prince, our regiment has gone to the front, but i am attached...
“no, peter nikoláevich; i only want to show that in the cavalry
“no, pardon me, i won’t go now till the child is better,” thought
“no, papa is not back yet,” said sónya.
“no-o-o!” muttered dólokhov through his teeth, “no, it’s not
“no, on my word it’s not obstinacy! i can’t describe the feeling.
“no, on my true word of honor,” said natásha, crossing herself,
no one would understand that it was not to quench his thirst or from
no one slept.
no one had given túshin orders where and at what to fire, but after
“no, one can’t hear them. they’d be firing if we had.”
“no one can attain to truth by himself. only by laying stone on stone
nonsense, the chief thing is not to forget the important thing i
nonsense out of your head.”
“nonsense, nonsense!” cried the old man, shaking his pigtail to
“nonsense, indeed! i am telling you the fact,” said natásha
nonsense,” he thought. “the slur on my name and honor—that’s all
“nonsense!” he cried, and the veins on his forehead and neck stood
nonsense, but we are friends forever. she, if she loves anyone, does it
nonsense... but this is real.... now then, natásha, now then, dearest!
nonsense, but it would in fact have been difficult to give any other
‘nonsense!’”
nonreceipt of our dispatch of november 18. that is how it will end.”
“no, not on any account! i will tell him myself, and you’ll listen
“no, nothing.”
“no, no, please not... you are mademoiselle bourienne,” said
“no! no! no! when your father writes to tell me that you are behaving
“no, no!” cried natásha, “she and i have already talked it over.
“no, no! a thousand times no! i shall never agree with you,” said
“non, madame.” he smiled quite inappropriately.
nonintervention. and...” he paused. “finally one cannot impute the
none to anyone.”
“no, my dear fellow, i’ll be a wallflower,” said denísov.
no more. she is so affected. ask her in,” she said to the footman in a
“no, mon père.”
“no, merci, mon père.”
“no matter, princess, don’t be alarmed,” said mary bogdánovna.
“no matter at all, my dear count,” she said, meekly closing her
“no, mamma, i’m not in love with him, i suppose i’m not in love
“no, mamma, but i’m so sorry for him. i don’t know how i’m to
no longer looked at the french but paid attention to the sight-seers and
no longer a young diplomat, as he had entered the service at the age
no longer, as it should be, to avoid or attack the enemy, but solely to
“no, leave me alone,” said princess mary.
“no, i won’t,” said pierre, pushing anatole aside, and he went up
“no, i won’t promise that. you don’t know how kutúzov is pestered
“no, i will do it myself, only tell me what to say. it’s all very
“no, it will not do,” she said decidedly, clasping her hands. “no,
“no, it’s only indigestion?... say it’s only indigestion, say so,
“no, it’s a sprain.”
“no, i tell you.”
“no, it can’t be helped, lad,” said the prince. “they’re
“no, i mustn’t. i am so sorry for him! he’s so nice.”
“no, impossible!” said prince andrew, laughing and pressing
“no, i meant to ask...” pierre began, but prince andrew interrupted
“no, i have not; but this is what i have been thinking and wanted
“no, i have been transferred to the line,” said anatole, hardly able
“no, i have a wicked heart.”
“no, i hate my life,” pierre muttered, wincing.
“no, if i hadn’t thought of it being a treasure,” said rostóv,
“no, i considered it erroneous and did not follow it,” said pierre,
“no, i can’t agree with you! to live only so as not to do evil and
“no, he thinks only of himself,” muttered the princess without
“no, he’s not a fool!” replied natásha indignantly and seriously.
“no good... no good...” said the prince rapidly, and thrusting his
“no. give me the book,” said the stranger.
“no, gentlemen, no... you mustn’t think... i quite understand.
no fruit. i never could understand the fondness some people have for
“no, friend,” said a pleasant and, as it seemed to prince andrew, a
“no, friend, he is sharper-eyed than you are. boots and leg bands...
“no, fifty,” replied the latter.
“no, dearest, sweet one, honey, i won’t give up—i know you know
“no,” cried he, becoming more and more eager, “napoleon is great
no, certainly i must not approach him, i must not intrude on his
“no, call her you, please! i’ll tell you all about it some other
“no, but what is it, my dear? do you want me to go and tell him?”
“no, but she said that it was all over and that he’s now an
“no, but listen,” she said, “now you are quite a man, aren’t
“no, but i say,” said pierre, calming down, “you are a wonderful
“no, but i must. it may be arrogant of me, but still it is best to say
“no, but imagine the old countess zúbova, with false curls and her
“no, but i have been in love a thousand times and shall fall in
“no, but do promise! i won’t let you go! my dear benefactor...”
“no, but don’t you think it’s nice?” she kept repeating.
“nobody wants me!” thought rostóv. “there is no one to help me or
“no apologies, none whatever,” said dólokhov to denísov (who on
“no, andrew, i must say you have changed. oh, how you have....”
no account have told a deliberate lie. he began his story meaning to
no?”
“no.”
“no.”
“no.”
ninety thousand strong, was to threaten prussia so as to bring her out
nineteenth, a great, excitedly bustling activity began which lasted till
“nikólenka... wounded... a letter,” she announced in gleeful
“nikólenka, what is the matter?” sónya’s eyes fixed on him
nikólenka; by his relations as a charming, attractive, and polite young
“nikólenka... a letter... wa... a... s... wounded... my darling
night when he had decided that to marry hélène would be a calamity and
night, so dark that the coachman could not see the carriage pole.
night long without closing their eyes, while the adjutants and
night i looked at the campfires and there was no end of them. a regular
night he had not the slightest doubt, and the guiltlessness of
night. but now, in the solitude of the journey, they seized him with
night a motley throng of people sat there, not merrymaking, but somberly
night.”
(nicknamed in society, “the king of prussia”) ever since the emperor
“nicholas, will you come to iogel’s? please do!” said natásha.
nicholas went to her, kissed her hand, and sitting down silently at her
nicholas was to go with him to the regiment; then came anna mikháylovna
“nicholas!” was all sónya said, instantly turning white.
nicholas turned away from her. natásha too, with her quick instinct,
nicholas tried to say “yes,” but could not: and he nearly burst into
nicholas straight in the eyes, “you know the saying, ‘lucky in love,
nicholas sat at some distance from sónya, beside julie karágina, to
nicholas rostóv, with denísov and his new acquaintance, dólokhov, sat
nicholas rostóv turned away and, as if searching for something, gazed
nicholas’ letter was read over hundreds of times, and those who were
“nicholas is going away in a week’s time, his... papers... have
nicholas. i never knew any madame jacquot.”
nicholas, having as usual exhausted two pairs of horses, without
“nicholas, have you come? come here, dear!” called the old countess
“nicholas! get up!” natásha’s voice was again heard at the door.
“nicholas, don’t tell me that!” she said.
“nicholas! come out in your dressing gown!” said natásha’s voice.
nicholas’ career and am heartless and ungrateful, while truly... god
nicholas began pacing up and down the room.
nicholas and denísov were walking up and down, looking with kindly
    * nicholas.
nice indeed, quite french,” and he kissed the tips of his fingers.
nice... but it won’t do...not that... but as a friend, i shall always
“nice! and so you no longer wish to marry borís?”
next note, the next phrase, and everything in the world was divided into
next morning when the valet came into the room with his coffee, pierre
next morning, after the fatigues of their journey, the travelers slept
next glanced round in alarm.
next day, the third of march, soon after one o’clock, two hundred and
next day the french army did not renew their attack, and the remnant of
next day, the army began its campaign, and up to the very battle of
next day rostóv saw denísov off. he did not wish to stay another
next day prince vasíli had arrived and settled in the count’s house.
next day he woke late. recalling his recent impressions, the first
next day, at eight in the morning, pierre and nesvítski drove to the
next came four soldiers, carrying something heavy on a cloak, and passed
news i may take back to my poor boy.”
news—if it’s not false. bennigsen seems to have obtained a complete
news and common acquaintances like people who do not know each other
news.
new path so attractively shown him by the masons, on which he firmly
new pack of cards said: “bank, gentlemen!”
new mustache. “now then, get on,” he shouted to the driver. “do
newly erected buildings were standing empty and that the serfs continued
new friend’s influence.
new church, previously begun, had cost about 10,000 in each of the last
never understand it, because you’ve never loved anyone. you have no
never to dare to change your way of dress without my consent.”
never thought much of him.”
never take it off. do you promise?”
never says anything stupid. she says little, but what she does say is
“never, never marry, my dear fellow! that’s my advice: never marry
never had love been so much in the air, and never had the amorous
never favorably disposed toward him—would have used it to turn the
never bear malice or enmity toward thy brother. be kindly and courteous.
neutrality is just a trap. i have faith only in god and the lofty
neutral... i know that. what about austria?” said he, rising from his
nesvítski with a laugh threw his arms round prince andrew, but
nesvítski was there as an old member of the club. pierre, who at his
nesvítski tried to move on, soldiers and carts pushed him back again
nesvítski. “they’ve made up splendid packs for me—fit to cross
nesvítski stopped him and took him home.
nesvítski’s and dólokhov’s sabers, which were stuck into the
nesvítski rose, puffing, and went up to the general, smiling.
“nesvítski, nesvítski! you numskull!” came a hoarse voice from
nesvítski looked round and saw, some fifteen paces away but separated
nesvítski. count ilyá rostóv with the other members of the committee
nesvítski closed their eyes. at the same instant they heard a report
nesvítski and zherkóv were so surprised by this outburst that they
nesvítski.
neither quickly nor slowly. at this natásha dashed swiftly among the
neither of them could think of her as a rival, so they began dressing
neither of her gown and coiffure nor of how she would go in nor of what
neither moving forward to protect the battery nor backward with the
neither i nor my mother would ever ask or take anything from him.”
neighbor on his right quickly turned in alarm to bezúkhov.
neighbor? no! you have spent your life in idleness. then you married, my
neighboring wheel is as quiet and motionless as though it were prepared
neighboring town, who had been at bald hills for the last fortnight.)
neighbor, and may envy never dim the purity of that bliss. forgive thy
negotiations and to offer the russian army the three days’ truce.
need to hurry. however, he put his horse to a trot in the direction
need some money.”
need, even the inevitability, of entering into conversation with this
needed for success in the service was not effort or work, or courage, or
needed.
neck. on his right sat the italian abbé whom pierre had met at
neck. it seemed to rostóv that bogdánich was only pretending not
neck instead.
neck and the corners of her mouth drooped.
necessity of going back on his word. with a sinking heart he watched
necessary to take some part in it.
necessary to go on insisting day after day and hour after hour, and even
necessary to enable it to retreat without losing its heavy equipment.
necessary,” said the younger of the two speakers, evidently in the
necessary. halfway up the stairs they were almost knocked over by
necessary for the position. then there’s this house, which must be
near the strange lady. prince vasíli in front of the door, near the
near the gun waved their arms and beat the horses to make them turn and
near the altar of the church at bald hills there was a chapel over the
near sixty, dear friend... i too... all will end in death, all! death is
nearly cut our left flank in half were for the moment repulsed. our
near him pricked their ears at these shouts. over there, where the
near him and only wished that they would help him and bring him back to
near everything grew brighter, more joyful, more significant, and more
nearest him were not to blame for they were themselves pressed still
nearer. then the clang of hoofs, as of several horses galloping,
nearer, faster and louder, louder and faster, a cannon ball, as if it
near by the news spread that the emperor was unwell. he ate nothing and
natural to him was very gentle and wary with them both at dinner. on
natásha, who was exceptionally graceful, was first, even danced the pas
natásha to sing.
natásha took the first note, her throat swelled, her chest rose,
natásha, that winter, had for the first time begun to sing seriously,
natásha suddenly flushed.
natásha, stopping suddenly. “i feel so happy!”
natásha’s previous remark. “it’s because she was in love with
natásha’s prediction proved true. dólokhov, who did not usually care
natásha smiled through her tears.
natásha’s large mouth widened, making her look quite ugly, and she
natásha’s intermediacy, to remind him of his promise, and then
natásha, seeing the impression the news of her brother’s wound
natásha saw there was nothing to be afraid of and so she braved even
natásha, raising her face for a moment from her mother’s mantilla,
natásha only desisted when she had been told that there would be
natásha no less proud of her first long dress and of being at a real
natásha. nicholas understood that something must have happened between
natásha looked at sónya with wondering and inquisitive eyes, and said
natásha kissed her on the hair.
natásha kept pulling everyone by sleeve or dress, urging them to
“natásha,” he said, “you know that i love you, but....”
natásha flared up. “i don’t want to marry anyone. and i’ll tell
natásha fell in love the very moment she entered the ballroom. she
natásha did not like the visitor’s tone of condescension to childish
natásha could not remain calm, seeing him in such a plight. she began
natásha considered.
natásha came in and walking straight up to pierre said, laughing and
natásha. but he was not as much at ease with sónya and dólokhov as
natásha blushed and laughed.
natásha, and sónya, and will certainly never touch a card again.” at
natásha, after she had pulled him down toward her and covered his face
“nataly,” he said, moving with rapid steps toward her, “decide my
“natálya ilyníchna behaves very well to me,” remarked borís. “i
narýshkin, uvárov, dolgorúkov, apráksin, valúev, to the committee,
narrowed disdainfully, he entered the room of the minister of war with
napoleon with even greater warmth than the year before. orders were
napoleon who said it. he heard the speaker addressed as sire. but he
napoleon’s words. “‘i opened my antechambers and they crowded
napoleon’s proclamation was as follows:
napoleon’s eyes prince andrew thought of the insignificance of
napoleon’s army of one hundred and fifty thousand men would cut him
napoleon. “if he weren’t afraid of a battle why did he ask for that
napoleon happened to fall into one of the fainting fits to which he was
napoleon
napoleon
napkin, from behind the next man’s shoulders and whispered: “dry
name to rectify this omission, prince andrew galloped back. kutúzov
namesake, the new count bezúkhov) “and now she’s in love with that
name-day party.
name.
naked shoulders. she did not give him the money, but let herself be
“my wife,” continued prince andrew, “is an excellent woman, one
my wife—are the count’s only direct heirs. i know, i know how hard
“my vocation is a different one,” thought princess mary. “my
my stupidity.”
mystical book i am sending you; it has an enormous success here. though
mystery on which perhaps the fate of mankind depends. but since this
mystery is of such a nature that nobody can know or use it unless he be
mysteriously. “yes, tomorrow, tomorrow!” he thought. “tomorrow
myself not long ago, in moscow and when traveling, but at such times i
myself and you with the hope that your son is alive, for otherwise
myself and ruined my life. and only now when i am living, or at least
my riding and commanding so vast an army, so i have passed on the
my respects to monsieur your father and my compliments to mademoiselle
my relations with him, transient as they were, have been one of the
“my passion! i have had so many,” replied pierre.
“my part is played out,” said prince andrew. “what’s the use of
“my mother! my mother, my angel, my adored angel mother,” and
my men in the wood. i beg of you, i beg of you,” he repeated, “to
“my god! what does it all mean?” thought he. “and here, where at
“my god, i’m a ruined and dishonored man! a bullet through my brain
“my god, how happy i should be if he ordered me to leap into the fire
my geometry lessons,” said princess mary gleefully, as if her lessons
“my friend,” said anna mikháylovna in gentle tones, addressing
my friend... i only need see prince vasíli sergéevich: he is staying
my father has not spoken to me of a suitor, but has only told me that he
my empty portmanteau and my dressing gown. the emperor proposes to give
“my desire is never to leave you, father, never to separate my
my dear, whether the will and letter were written, and whether they have
my dear sir,” he added, seeing that his servant had entered... “and
“my dear,” she said to her son, once more stimulating him by a
“my dear,” said princess mary, addressing her brother from beside
“my dear, really... it’s better not to wake him... he’s asleep,”
“my dear princess catherine semënovna,” began prince vasíli
“my dear, i must tell you that this is a moment i shall never, never
“my dear,” he heard what seemed to him her despairing whisper behind
“my dear friend?” said she, in a tone of pathetic inquiry, prepared
“my dear fellow, you are a hero!” said bilíbin.
“my dear fellow, what have you been up to in moscow? why have you
“my dear fellow,” nesvítski whispered to prince andrew, “the old
“my dear fellow, how are you?” said he through the singing, making
“my dear!” exclaimed his mother imploringly, again laying her hand
“my dear count, you were one of my best pupils—you must dance,”
my dear boy, are you serving in the horse guards?” asked the old man,
“my dear borís,” said princess anna mikháylovna to her son as
“my dear benefactor! this is what i expected from you—i knew your
“my dear anna mikháylovna,” said he with his usual familiarity and
“my darling!” he said—a word he had never used to her before.
“my cousin has nothing to do with this and it’s not necessary to
my advance guard, and have no right to arrange an armistice without my
muttered something and colored.
must remain hidden from thee, but live so that thou mayest be ready for
must put in an appearance there,” said the prince. “my daughter is
“must one die like a dog?” said he.
must have pity on a young man in misfortune. you know he has important
must have an explanation...”
must gain his confidence and friendship and through him obtain a special
must excuse me,” said he, putting pierre at ease instead of being put
must be broken off ... and then you know, andré...” (she looked
mustache. “i want to know what you men are like. are you the same as
muskets of the nearest soldiers. the soldiers started firing without
music. amid these sounds, only the youthful kindly voice of the emperor
murder of the duc d’enghien. the vicomte said that the duc d’enghien
murat’s emissary and retired, leaving bagratión’s division
murat’s detachment and the battle had not yet begun. in bagratión’s
murat. bonaparte himself, not trusting to his generals, moved with all
mud-bespattered breeches. the german landlady, hearing rostóv’s loud
much to say to one another in private and so they had been seeking an
much that the count held him up as a pattern to the other guests. berg
much prettier. pierre was received as if he were a corpse or a leper.
much of it left.”
much, my dear sir.”
much interest him because at that moment he felt with delight that he
much because he heard their sound as because he saw uneasiness on
much at the captain as at those who were laughing, among whom zherkóv
“much as mamma pressed her, she refused, and i know she won’t change
much as a sailor is by his ship. however far he has walked, whatever
much, and all of you, only véra... and what for? what have i done
“mr. aide-de-camp! mr. aide-de-camp!... for heaven’s sake... protect
“mr. aide-de-camp! help me!... what does it all mean?” screamed the
moving toward our left flank, the higher command found that our center
moving the money forward he prepared to deal. rostóv sat down by his
moving a chair close to hers seated himself beside her.
move on. the horses moved off the bank. the ice, that had held under
“move on a hundred yards and we are certainly saved, remain here
move on a few steps and be killed themselves in the same way.
movement, word, or look of his, never taking their blissfully adoring
movements were still slow and measured.
movements of the mass of which in his regiment he felt himself a tiny,
movements of the bearers, and the cold listless gaze fixed itself upon
movements of the baggage trains of the entire army along the krems-znaim
movements of the austrian army, and then give it to his excellency.”
movement of the tsar’s seemed to him enchanting.
movement of soldiers forming ranks and getting their muskets ready,
movement of dólokhov’s hands. those broad, reddish hands, with hairy
moved off accompanied by an irregularly swaying sea of aides-de-camp.
moved his forces to attack the center and outflank both the russian
moved and halted at the officers’ command, turned with banners flying,
mouth!” said bilíbin, and the mop of hair on his head moved with
mouth full of false teeth, as if she were trying to cheat old age....
mouth. another was walking sturdily by himself but without his musket,
mouth all seemed puckered into a vacant, wearied grimace, and his arms
mounting his horse again prince andrew lingered with the battery,
mounted frenchmen, probably adjutants, were galloping up the hill. a
mount and ride to the bridge. (observe that all three are gascons.)
mountains of bohemia, and you and your army would have spent a bad
mountains, defending himself against superior forces of the enemy and
motive of his visit, “is it true that the dowager empress wants
motionless masses of the french now swayed and that there really was
mothers used to be married at twelve or thirteen.”
mother, pushing away her daughter with pretended sternness, and turning
mother keep you in their holy and all-powerful care!
mother, drawing her hand from beneath her old mantle and laying
mother by the news of this loss, he knew what a relief it would be to
mother and the youngest daughter—both named nataly. ever since
mother!...”
most strongly expressed his insincere love for her, and he felt the
most part to be spoken at a moment of victory and triumph, generally
most of the guests, uncertain how to regard this sally, looked at the
most of her observations, it made everyone feel uncomfortable, not
most joyful though erroneous rumors were rife of the imaginary approach
most in people. as to his inheritance and the part played by prince
moscow who was expected every moment, and men on horseback with lanterns
moscow when borís was a boy of fourteen, and had quite forgotten him,
moscow. the remembrance of the rostóvs’ house and of his childish
moscow their house was always full of visitors. the night after the
moscow’s hero was the fact that he had no connections in the city
“moscow has nothing else to do but gossip,” borís went on.
moscow for his equipment, was to join them on the march to radzivílov.
moscow. as a result he could not go to the country with the rest of the
moscow after the death of count bezúkhov, he would call pierre, or
moscow!”
moscovites who took their opinions from others—ilyá rostóv among
mortification, our opinion of bonaparte cannot alter. we shall not cease
morsels. the group about mortemart immediately began discussing the
morning till night and abstemious, so of course i am well.”
morning, the lines were so near together that the men could see one
morning or evening than night. on the way pierre remembered that anatole
morning greeting, crossing herself with trepidation and repeating a
morning.
more to do with you and you are no longer my friend, no longer my
more than timókhin had done when he was reprimanded by the regimental
more than they did anatole. dólokhov could play all games and nearly
more than anyone else, prince vasíli took possession of pierre’s
more! some more!” a merry voice was saying in his soul. but no more
more outcries, and tears of joy. he could not distinguish which was
more noticeable how much plainer she had become. some unobtrusive touch
more natural and animated than usual, so that the wrinkles round
more important nearer to the honored guest, as naturally as water flows
more important guests—an old general and his wife, and anna pávlovna
more honorable to admit one’s mistake than to let matters become
more, for immediately afterwards cannon began firing from somewhere and
more cunning or subtle diplomatist—you know, a combination of french
more confused, blushed like a child till tears came to his eyes, began
more confirmed the farther he rode into the region behind the village of
more confident was the appearance of our troops. the soldiers in
more cheerful in his presence, and were evidently anxious to display
more, but he waited and did nothing.
moreau would have been a prisoner if suvórov had had a free hand; but
more animated. only when a man was killed or wounded did he frown and
more animated. “and believe me, they are reaping the reward of their
more and more animated and evidently wishing to express his new outlook
more and holding out the letter.
more.
monument from moscow which he intended to erect in his own garden to his
monsieur buonaparte sitting on a throne and granting the petitions of
monk he received and had a long talk with.”
“mon dieu, mon dieu!” she muttered, and lifting her dress with one
“mon dieu! mon dieu! oh!” she heard as she left the room.
moment when the first report was heard a fourth was seen. then two
moment those hands with their short reddish fingers and hairy wrists,
moment the french who were attacking, suddenly and without any apparent
moments: but his words sounded so weak that he felt ashamed of himself.
moment, sat beside him: the rest, crowding round him, watched every
moment of meeting had been so beatific that his present joy seemed
moment marching with the company. the hussar cornet of kutúzov’s
moment imagined himself to be napoleon in person and to have just
moment he was clearly thinking of nothing but how dashing a fellow he
moment had arrived. with the air of a practical petersburg lady she now,
moment consider what she should do), but all this had long been familiar
moment.”
moment!”
modern science of strategics, had been handed to kutúzov when he was in
modeling and modeling you must get smeared with clay,” suggesting
mixture onto the floor and asked for some more water. the maid brought
misunderstandings and did not now feel she had a right to ask him for
misunderstanding. i expect you feel it so yourself. let us write her
mist and taking it for a tree can again take it for a tree after he has
mistaken,” said the stranger in a deliberate and loud voice.
mistake. marry when you are old and good for nothing—or all that is
mistake and that anatole meant to flirt with mademoiselle bourienne,
mist!”
“missed!” shouted dólokhov, and he lay helplessly, face downwards
missed him. his one desire was to know what was happening and at any
misleading you.”
misfortune? and when did it begin? such a little while ago i came to
misery. that could not be, yet he awaited with a sinking heart the
misery. a man offended you and you shot him, and you say you do not
miserable man who stood before him, but the task he had begun had to be
mischief-makers don’t meddle even a german beats buonaparte. he is
mirror her eyes full of tears and her mouth quivering, ready to burst
minutest details himself. princess mary had ceased taking lessons in
minutes later the eldest sister came out with a pale hard face, again
minutes before the troops had passed the emperors. not only would it
minute later with another committeeman, carrying a large silver salver
minister’s son was, with his rosy cheeks and dark eyebrows, and with
minister’s bent bald head with its gray temples. he went on reading
ministers and great people, and know how to deal with them all! it’s
miniature portrait of her son on the lid of a snuffbox, while the tears
mine. i have written to my poor mother,” said the smiling mademoiselle
mined and doubly mined and that there are menacing fortifications at its
mined?”
“mind, walk him up and down well!”
mind to ask him a question about the roads, the traveler had closed his
mind once for all that what he saw happening around him that evening was
“mind, no holding on!” cried another.
mind. “if a tenth part of his detachment returns i shall thank god,”
mind easy,” said he in abrupt sentences while sealing his letter.
mind at rest,” said he without altering his tone, beneath the
“mind, annette, i hope you have not played a wicked trick on me,”
milorádovich wheeled his horse sharply and stationed himself a little
millions of human beings who grew up in the same way. as twenty
millions in hand might smile at a poor fellow who told him that he, poor
milk-white sea. nothing was visible in the valley to the left into which
military men, bore that expression of condescending respect for their
military code, which he and the others knew in the regiment, there was
miles away from the french. at grunth also some apprehension and alarm
miles, and reining in his horse he sighed restfully and looked round
mile and a half away, but had suddenly and unexpectedly appeared just in
milan?” asked anna pávlovna, “and of the comedy of the people of
mikhelson’s army i understand—tolstóy ‘s too... a simultaneous
mikháylovna, whom she had not seen properly since she returned from
mikháylovna. though the latter held on tenaciously, her voice lost none
mikháylovna’s voice alone in a long speech, then a cry, then silence,
mikháylovna’s son; nicholas, the undergraduate, the count’s eldest
mikháylovna,” said prince vasíli, arranging his lace frill, and in
mikháylovna?” said he. “let us wait until evening. the doctors are
mikháylovna returned to the rostóvs’ and went to bed. on waking in
mikháylovna pass and did not evince the least surprise at seeing them
mikháylovna, or you will not hold out.”
mikháylovna of one of them.
mikháylovna made a hurried sign with her eyes, glancing at the sick
mikháylovna looked attentively at the sick man’s eyes, trying to
mikháylovna in passing instinctively glanced into the room, where
mikháylovna evinced no surprise, she only smiled faintly and sighed, as
mikháylovna enthusiastically, quite forgetting all the humiliation she
mikháylovna entered the hall. though she came upon the count in his
mikháylovna drubetskáya. rostóv, the father, is ilyá, and his son is
mikháylovna as she entered, and at the big stout figure of pierre who,
mikháylovna and snatching the portfolio from her.
mikháylovna.
might toward the bushes. he did not now run with the feeling of doubt
might retreat and leave the pickets.”
might outweigh all the courage of the russian troops, and at the same
might have been more decisive had the commander in chief not been so
might, feeling that he would like to injure himself by that shout, if
might easily succeed to the post; how popular he was with everyone in
might deprive him of all this happiness, newly appreciated and newly
might be up to on the sly” (she meant that they would be kissing),
might, and a passionate attraction to him who was the cause of this
midwife.
midnight. prince andrew went out.
middle of the muddy road.
middle of the drawing room on the first chair he had come across,
middle of his mouth and with red lips gently inhaled the smoke, letting
middle, a cry was heard, then princess mary’s heavy tread and the
michael ivánovich did not at all know when “you and i” had said
“michael ivánovich!” cried the old prince to the architect who,
michael ivánovich are the two people to whom he is always gentle and
me—yet dreadful and unnatural as it seems, i would give them all at
me! what will become of us? i am the wife of the doctor of the seventh
met, she fell on his breast, sobbing. she could not lift her face, but
me to inform you... but, don’t be uneasy,” he added, noticing that
me to burn the bridge! i know the service, and it is my habit orders
methods that he had better leave genoa alone?” retorted prince andrew
met him at the first door and, expressing their delight at seeing such a
me! that’s the sort of man he is, and nothing more,” replied
metallic roar, and a whistling grenade flew above the heads of our
message to kutúzov, perhaps even to the sovereign himself. the morning
merry reminiscences.
merry.
merrily to everyone at once, sat down and gaily arranged herself in her
merrily and prettily as ever.
merrily.
me!” rostóv whispered.
me, pierre. i shall not forget your interests.”
me only the day before yesterday not to forget borís. but he had
me of her own accord in the evening and tell me everything. perhaps i
men with broad, self-confident faces, fat fingers, and resolute gestures
men, who here, as in vienna, formed a special set which bilíbin, their
men was training a trotter of his own for a race. he knew a lady on one
men was to attack the french from different sides. the old prince did
men uselessly, and so had hastened to throw some sharpshooters into the
mention her!” he exclaimed fiercely.
mentioned their age. “if you marry it will be a different thing,”
mentioned during the journey.
mention, and which you think is the result of your own mental efforts,
men—the minister of foreign affairs, prince adam czartorýski.... it
mental image of his future activity in this direction rose in his mind.
mental activity is to you or me. you can’t help thinking. i go to bed
men take their first steps on life’s road, each saw immense changes in
men’s will.
men should continue to march at ease, and he and all his suite showed
men should be in their greatcoats and in marching order, and that the
men’s end the voices sounded louder and louder, especially that of the
men, seemed so immeasurably above him, an insignificant officer of the
men of the same kind hiding in the shadow of the house on both sides.
men disfigured by fear of death now crowded together, crushing one
men and provisions have not arrived. gallop off to him at once and
me... myself most of all. then i don’t eat, don’t wash... and how is
memory, i will do the impossible—your son shall be transferred to the
memory, his extensive reading (he had read everything, knew everything,
memory, and he told everybody that his son had been killed. he tried not
members of the council of war. they were drinking tea, and only awaited
members and guests jostling one another and trying to get a good look
member of the hofkriegsrath mildly and attentively.
melancholy was just like the august melancholy she showed at the mention
me, just because i have exerted myself on his behalf, befriended him,
me in war the energy of young men often shows the way better than all
me in the eyes of society, and even of the court,” he added, lowering
me in choosing me for your second, if at this grave, this very
me i lied, and i told him he lied. and there it rests. he may keep me
me. i am used to suffering.”
me!” he began to laugh. “well, what of it! i hope we’ll get better
me. ‘everyone fears a bear,’ he says, ‘but when you see one your
meeting, they had kissed each other, but today they felt it could not
meeting arrives. not daring to look round and without looking round, he
meditatively and rapidly:
medal he can get his reward just as well in the rearguard, but if he
me, but that he’ll marry julie. you see how he’s been with her all
me; but, my dear, i am getting on for sixty and must be prepared for
measures—the removal of injunctions, petitions, permits, and so
me apologize, because if he, as commander of this regiment, thinks it
meanwhile the younger generation: borís, the officer, anna
meanwhile the staff officer standing in front pointed out something to
meanwhile prince vasíli had opened the door into the princess’ room.
meanwhile, pétya, having found and seized the sabers in the outer room,
meanwhile nesvítski, zherkóv, and the officer of the suite were
meanwhile kutúzov sent his adjutants back to hasten to the utmost the
meant to double the three thousand just put down to his score, when
mean to fight, let’s fight. but the devil knows what this is.”
meant for him not only the loss of sixteen hundred rubles, but the
meant by the words all is over, “and the count’s papers are opened,
me,” answered a voice struggling with tears.
means. then you say, ‘lighten his toil.’ but as i see it, physical
meaning for him, that he paid no attention to it. the aunt was just
meaning for anyone else, but gave him some of the best joys of his life;
mean good french society—will have been forever destroyed, and
meadow.”
me?”
me.”
me.”
me!”
mazuwka is this? but she does dance splendidly.”
“may the devil take them—the traitors!”
may perhaps have a stronger effect on the sincere seeker after wisdom
may not have seen, but i have seen, how good men brought up in those
may laugh as much as you like, but all the same bonaparte is a great
may i shall do my duty. i will come and spend the night. he must not be
may christ be with you in your great endeavor!”
“matvévna,” the gun from which they had removed the dead officer.
“matvévna’s” carriage. at the foot of the hill, a pale hussar
matters yourself!’ yes... that was the answer i got!”
matters very satisfactorily. borís, during the campaign, had made the
matters, social interests and the fair sex occupied no small part of his
matter of indifference whether he remained there for a few hours or for
matter might be he did not care, but it gave him great pleasure to
mathematics from her father, and when the old prince was at home went
matchmaking chronicles of moscow now speak of me as the future countess
match in russia, had sunk greatly in the esteem of society after his
master, would touch and delude him.
master’s thoughts. he guessed that the question referred to prince
master, “but those between virtue and vice. beware of making any
mass. looking down over the rails prince nesvítski saw the rapid, noisy
masses of russian troops. at the bend of the danube, vessels, an island,
masses.
masonic statutes, “be kindly and courteous,” recurred to him. he
mason.
mary’s room.
mary spent most of the day in the nursery, taking a mother’s place to
“mary,” she said, moving away from the embroidery frame and lying
mary! say...” and the little princess began to cry capriciously like
mary, really this dress does not suit you. i prefer you in your little
mary, i am going to love him very much,” said lise, looking with
mary. how good it would be to know where to seek for help in this life,
mary, having taken and closed the exercise book with the next day’s
mary entered the antechamber as usual at the time appointed for the
mary did not frighten them (she never inspired fear in anyone), but they
mary, but did not at once take his arm from the waist of mademoiselle
mary bolkónskaya.”
“mary bogdánovna, i think it’s beginning!” said princess mary
mary, and the little princess. prince andrew had been called to his
“márya lvóvna karágina and her daughter!” announced the
“márya dmítrievna! what kind of ice pudding? i don’t like ice
márya dmítrievna on her right and anna mikháylovna on her left, the
márya dmítrievna, curved his arms, beat time, straightened his
“márya dmítrievna?” came her voice from there.
márya dmítrievna and the countess burst out laughing, and all the
márya dmítrievna.
mary.
mary.
mary
martyr’s death for his sake. then robespierre was beheaded for being
marshal of the court, count tolstóy.
marry!” concluded prince andrew.
marry anyone, but will be a dancer. only don’t tell anyone.”
married, la petite est gentille.” *
married,” answered the countess sharply and sarcastically.
marriage—when the marriageable daughters and their mothers had nothing
“marriages are made in heaven,” replied the elderly lady.
marriageable daughters, and of the young ladies themselves, toward
     * “marlborough is going to the wars; god knows when he’ll
markóv immediately dropped his own beside it and picked it up without
market place, where there had been some rather heavy firing before the
marked the change? i sat all the time in this same place at this table,
“marie” produced on the visitors. and she saw mademoiselle
maria theresa order of the third grade, which the emperor was conferring
mare he rode, his hand in a white glove gathered up the reins, and he
marching with particular grace and boldness in time to the song and
marching thirty miles that stormy night across roadless hills, with his
marching along both.
marched gaily, as they always do when going into action, especially to
many young men to his parents’ house. véra was a handsome girl
many wrinkles on his large features, to rostóv who was crimson with
many of them), and at last he saw how a whole detachment of french
man with the white forehead, black eyebrows, and red lips.
man, with gray bushy eyebrows overhanging bright eyes of an indefinite
man with a diamond ring on his forefinger, who was fond of speaking
man who has at length begun to attain a long-desired happiness. as soon
manure on well-kept plowland, lay from ten to fifteen dead and wounded
man. the revolution was a grand thing!” continued monsieur pierre,
man’s simple-minded eagerness, was explaining his pet theory. both
man’s penetration he understood all that was passing in bolkónski’s
man’s high, stout, uncovered chest and powerful shoulders, raised by
man’s hand and moving her lips as if to send it a kiss. pierre,
man, our dear vyazmítinov....”
man? on such matters i am only severe with myself. i understand such
man, of medium height, with firm, clearcut features. everything about
manner: they were all evidently firmly convinced of pierre’s noble
manners, who evidently considered himself a celebrity but out of
manner nor a desire to enter into conversation, but speaking so quietly
manner he wore in drawing rooms, but with the animated face with which
manly voice interrupting them both. “of course you artillery men are
manly-looking, but what amazed and estranged pierre till he got used
man is the count’s son,” she added more softly. “what a terrible
man is as surly as a dog.”
man.... here he is, and the count has not once asked for him.”
man, had not the five rubles that would make him happy.
mane—which, though he saw other faces as well, he had not lost sight
man. either this look meant nothing but that as long as one has eyes
man; by his acquaintances as a handsome lieutenant of hussars, a good
man beside you?”
man be fully imbued with the thought that we must defeat these hirelings
man, be for her? in her thoughts of marriage princess mary dreamed of
man, and that in the duel with bezúkhov, pierre was right and dólokhov
man and help him to worldly success. under cover of obtaining help
managed to utter (to her everything seemed funny). she leaned against
man.” again he pressed the hand of the latter with an expression of
man.
“mamma! what sweets are we going to have?” natásha again cried
“mamma! what sweets are we going to have?” and natásha’s voice
“mamma told me to ask you to join the dancers.”
“mamma!” rang out the clear contralto notes of her childish voice,
“mamma!... mamma!... he has made me...”
mamma has sent for me to go and dine at the apráksins’. read the
“mamma, are you cross? don’t be cross, dear! is it my fault?”
mamma.”
malodorous mouth. tears actually moistened his cheeks.
mallets, the doors opened before them. a bass voice (pierre was still
mallets and swords. as he was being led up to some object he noticed a
malevolent and caustic expression softened, as if admitting that what
“malbrook s’en va-t-en guerre. dieu sait quand reviendra.” *
make them look at the wag.
makes things trying for you, doesn’t it?” prince andrew asked
make something exceptional of them,” said the visitor.
make him go on.
make as successful a career of it as possible.”
make a remark, for the conversation interested him, but anna pávlovna,
make a career and must not miss opportunities, but must avail myself of
majesty, “who, thank god, was better today.” and each visitor,
majesty’s and you were pitied....”
majesty,” said an adjutant who had come from the batteries that were
majesty.”
majestic figure of his father, count bezúkhov, with that gray mane of
majestically entered the room. he was wearing his long coat with three
“mais, mon cher, i did this for my own sake, to satisfy my conscience,
mainly because denísov so delighted in her singing. she no longer sang
maid with the decanter in her haste had not closed the door (everything
maid’s voice at the door.
maid of honor’s hand to his lips, kissed it, and swung it to and fro
maid.
magnanimous. she felt convinced of that. thousands of dreams of a future
“ma foi, sire, nous ferons ce qui sera dans notre possibilité,
“ma foi!” said he, “tomorrow we shall see all that on the
“made what?”
made use of it.... “what have i done?” thought he. and he turned
made. prince andrew several times prompted pierre’s story of what he
mademoiselle bourienne was also looking at princess mary, and in her
mademoiselle bourienne walked up and down the conservatory for a long
mademoiselle bourienne, “mary’s is a face which such a coiffure does
mademoiselle bourienne in her arms and gently stroking her hair. the
mademoiselle bourienne, how i shall arrange it,” she added, smiling
mademoiselle bourienne and the little princess had to own to themselves
mademoiselle bourienne, also roused to great excitement by anatole’s
mademoiselle bourienne.
“made, made me an offer, mamma! mamma!” she exclaimed.
madeira”... “hungarian”... or “rhine wine” as the case might
made for the sacrament of unction, and in his house there was the bustle
made elegantly witty. in society he always awaited an opportunity to say
made a tour of the regiments and was annoyed at the irregularity of
made and highly valued. the old count came up to them and pressed
made a grimace, as if expecting something unpleasant.
“madame, i doubt my ability before such an audience,” said he,
madame de souza. he began reading about the sufferings and virtuous
“madame de genlis! madame de genlis!” shouted laughing voices
mack’s arrival... what’s the matter, rostóv? you look as if you’d
mack, have by now already gained a decisive victory and no longer need
mack. an austrian general complained of me. i congratulated him on
machine or set it in proper motion, so anna pávlovna moved about her
machine, an impulse once given leads to the final result; and just as
“ma chère, there is a time for everything,” said the countess with
ma chère! on behalf of the whole family i beg you to come, mon cher!”
lying on the ground; they also met a crowd of soldiers some of whom were
luxurious study and sat down to the dinner prepared for him. bilíbin
luminous eyes shone more brightly than usual from the tears of joy that
luminous eyes fixed on her nurse’s wrinkled face (every line of which
l’u! * i shall certainly adopt an innovation and call him simply
luggage. franz, bilíbin’s man, was dragging a portmanteau with some
lucky man and, with his plain face, to be looked on as a sort of paris
luck the man has!”
luck! such ill luck. as soon as you left, it began and went on. hullo
low tones.
lower one, and something like two distinct smiles played continually
loving her; in deceiving yourself and her.” and he vividly recalled
loving and honoring him. “why, i have not yet had time to settle
love you, and i think i love you more than anyone else....”
love you.”
love, though less ecstatically, with their tsar and the glory of the
love, such rapture, and such self-sacrifice, what do any of our quarrels
lovers of music do when they hear a false note. the two women let go
lovers!” he added.
love of death. he consoled himself with the thought that he fulfilled
lovely eyes there was a look of fearful joy and hope that was also new
love, love of one’s neighbor, love of one’s enemy, is worthier,
love him all the more, but nicholas now considered himself unworthy of
love her, for that would be impossible.
love her.
love for natásha was unpleasant to him and he had not once been to see
loved more than himself. he kept telling himself that he would consider
love and befriend him.”
love again, though for no one have i such a feeling of friendship,
“louis xvi was executed because they said he was dishonorable and a
loud that those in the drawing room heard her and were startled. “why
loudly, handing kutúzov an envelope.
lot? and who would marry marie for love? plain and awkward! they’ll
lost more than he could pay.
lost. dólokhov “killed,” that is, beat, ten cards of rostóv’s
lost count of his children, but this pierre was his favorite.”
lost....” and prince hippolyte began to tell his story in such russian
losses. the general whose regiment had been inspected at braunau was
losing confidence in its allies, suffering from shortness of supplies,
lorrain’s instructions. the german doctor went up to lorrain.
lorrain, pursing up his lips, waved a severely negative finger before
lorrain considered.
look which was fixed on him, but him she could not see, she only saw
“look then at thy inner self with the eyes of the spirit, and ask
“look sharp! look sharp!” several voices repeated around him.
looks) and she had put on a maroon dress with a pale-blue scarf, the
looks and manner gave that impression. the princess felt this, and as if
“look, prince,” said another, who would have dearly liked to take
look or bad opinion from him,” rostóv decided; and sorrowfully and
look. nicholas went up to her and kissed her hand. this was the first
“look! look there!” one soldier was saying to another, pointing to a
“look, look!” said this adjutant, looking not at the troops in the
looking with tender affection and pity at mademoiselle bourienne’s
looking with dismay at her husband.
looking with a scared face at his comrade for help. the door, having let
looking round at the sound.
looking pretty and conscious of it, were standing by the clavichord,
looking not at pierre but straight before him, and turning the leaves
looking like something between a cart, a cabriolet, and a calèche.
looking inquiringly at him and watching to see how he would behave
looking down at the waters of the enns under the bridge, nesvítski
looking back saw that their foremost ranks were mixed up with some
looking at those driving past as if he pitied all who were not at that
looking at the puff from the gun that had sent the ball. his eyes
looking at them, turned to an adjutant to ask him for a field glass.
looking at the midwife with wide-open eyes of alarm.
looking at the ground, he came on some sticky, trodden mud, stumbled,
looking at rostóv, “you’ll win it back all the sooner. i lose to
looking at pierre. “at the present time it is difficult to know the
looking at natásha.
looking at his watch.
looking at her own handsome face she seemed to become still colder and
looking at her and waiting. nicholas saw that denísov was refusing
looking and held out his hand to her. she pressed it.
looking about him uneasily, and an awkward pause followed.
look for her.
looked very thoughtful and tender. with his hands behind him he paced
looked straight at his adjutant’s face without recognizing him.
looked like tradespeople, ran hurriedly from the entrance and hid in the
looked eagerly toward his eyes, waiting for the look for which she
looked at that aged, stern, motionless, almost lifeless face and moved
looked at telyánin. the lieutenant was looking about in his usual way
looked as if by that slight motion the army itself was expressing its
looked as clean and well washed as the tips of one’s fingers after a
“look at them scurrying! it’s burning! just see the smoke! fine!
“look at papa!” though as it was they never took their eyes off the
“look at papa!” shouted natásha to the whole company, and quite
look at me,” cried denísov who, unable to keep still on one spot,
long. say ‘perhaps.’”
longest sentences, he stopped the rotary motion of the snuffbox, raised
longer to hinder them but because the guns were trained and there was
longer and went on, between gasps of laughter: “and the whole world
longed to snatch up, to squeeze, to hold to his heart, this helpless
longed to kiss his father’s hands and kneel to beg his forgiveness,
longed. sónya now was sixteen and she was very pretty, especially at
long and warmly to the emperor and how the emperor, evidently weeping,
“long ago,” answered rostóv, “i have already been for the hay,
long.
loneliness of his daughter amid the general conversation. “got herself
london—could pronounce pitt’s sentence, he saw a well-built and
lofty sky before? and how happy i am to have found it at last! yes! all
lofty, beautiful feeling, such a...”
loftiness of soul. she has refused to evacuate malta. she wanted to
lodge. willarski coughed, he was answered by the masonic knock with
lodge—were so strong that he could not resist them. again whole days,
locks of gray hair.
locality was known and shown in every detail on the maps, and bonaparte,
locality and surroundings—fruit gardens, stone fences, tiled roofs,
loading.
living with the rostóvs.
living without having solved the problems that so absorbed him. he had
living with his mother, who, if she saw him dying, would not survive it.
livery, get up behind the carriage, and come with me while i make some
lively little girl’s look made him inclined to laugh without knowing
lively disposition, bent over her frame to hide a smile probably evoked
lived for others, and not almost, but quite, ruined my life. and i have
lived for glory.—and after all what is glory? the same love of others,
lit wisps of straw and ran after him, shouting, “vive l’empereur!”
little while, felt as if they too were becoming, like her, full of life
little waves of the enns, which rippling and eddying round the piles of
little túshin, moving feebly and awkwardly, kept telling his orderly to
little towns there’s nowhere to spend it,” said he. “well, let me
little table, and anna mikháylovna noticed that something was agitating
little princess walked twice round her, now adjusting a fold of the
little princess, shrugging her shoulders.
little princess, and having asked for a needle began tracing the condé
little princess.
little natásha as grown up.
little napoleon had suddenly appeared with his unsympathizing look of
little matters which could not interest anyone but themselves. natásha
little, i mean a good deal, a great deal—forty three thousand.”
little icon with its thin gold chain suddenly appeared upon his chest
little gold icon princess mary had hung round her brother’s neck, but
little frenchy, successful only because there were no longer any
little fingers. “all right! then it’s settled?”
little effort.”
little creature, but dared not do so. he stood over him, gazing at his
little companion! i hope she will bring her along with her when we’re
little bent, looked with beaming face at the princess without
little as nicholas had occupied himself with sónya of late, something
lit room adjoining the count’s reception room. it was one of those
listen, while waiting till it would be time to leave. her task was
“listen to me, prince,” said she. “i have never yet asked you
listen to his tale.
“listen!” said he; “don’t worry about your wife: what can be
listening to the gypsies and other singers.
listening to bilíbin he was already imagining how on reaching the army
listening to an old russian general with decorations, who stood very
listened to the rhetor in silence, feeling from all he said that his
listened to his regular breathing. the dark shadow was princess mary,
listened, refraining from a reply, and involuntarily wondered how this
listened attentively. his favorite occupation when not playing boston, a
“listen, dear annette,” said the prince, suddenly taking anna
lise, young bolkónski’s wife, this very evening, and perhaps the
“lise!” was all prince andrew said. but that one word expressed
lise? take her to your room and i’ll go to father. how is he? just the
lise sighed too.
“lise!” said prince andrew dryly, raising his voice to the pitch
lise. i will follow.”
“lise, i beg you to desist,” said prince andrew still more
lips and met them with her own. her face struck pierre, by its altered,
lips.
link which other people recognized had grown up between himself and
lingered for a moment.
line to reconnoiter personally, and twice to the emperors, russian and
line—the officers had been unable to keep sight-seers away. the
line (the guards) was already in action.
lines of artillery with green caissons.
line of the advancing russian columns. evidently the person they were
linen shirt unfastened in front. “wait a bit, you fellows.... here is
line, for from where they had been before it had been evident that it
line followed them across and the last cossacks quitted the farther side
line; and the austrian troops. but they all stood in the same lines,
line and that of the enemy were far apart on the right and left flanks,
like wind over leaves ran an excited whisper: “they’re coming!
like these if one has any feeling?” said anna pávlovna. “you are
like the others, anna pávlovna schérer showed pierre the change of
like that six months ago?”
like strangers.”
likes her way of reading. she reads to him in the evenings and reads
like method of enlightenment. our order imitates the ancient societies
likely the doctor.”
like his own, at the firing, and went back at a footpace. “well, some
liked to tell him. he gathered up the papers and with a bow to both,
liked to repeat to herself. it was the story of a girl who had been
liked to help young men, was flattered by being asked for his assistance
liked to. he looked inquiringly at his monitress and saw that she was
like all those polish names.”
like a horse running downhill harnessed to a heavy cart. whether he was
like a child, he fell into a deep, youthful slumber.
like a bird than a man.”
lights of shops, houses, and street lamps, fine carriages, and all that
lights and shouts in the enemy’s camp. rostóv rode up to bagratión,
lightly, more lightly, and yet more lightly whirled the count, flying
light. it was evident that the more lifeless he seemed at ordinary
lighted mirrors which repeated their reflections several times. now
light blue viennese calèche, slightly creaking on its springs and drawn
“lift it two lines more and it will be just right,” cried he in a
lift his stick again but hurried into the house.
lifted in childlike happiness.
life, which seemed to him so beautiful now that he had today learned to
life together were stripped, so that the screw could not get in or out,
life: remorse and illness. the only good is the absence of those evils.
life, he felt an unaccountable tenderness for this young man and made up
life guards, who had been losing that evening, climbed on the window
life from yours. i don’t wish to marry,” she answered positively,
“life as it is leaves one no peace. i should be thankful to do
life, and that of the seven virtues he lacked two—morality and the
life, and can’t, for i know no other. but think, andrew: for a young
life, all alone—for papa is always busy, and i... well, you know what
lieutenant general, our dear prince auersperg von mautern himself.
lid, drew out a drawer, and took out an exercise book filled with his
lichtenstein, le prince, de hohenlohe, and finally prishprish, and so on
liberty not to believe me and i don’t even care whether you do or
“liberty and equality,” said the vicomte contemptuously, as if at
“let us go to her, i must say good-by. or—go and wake and i’ll
“let us go ourselves. i only came round to ask denísov about
“let us go, iván lukích,” he said to the captain.
“let us go and have supper,” he said with a sigh, going to the door.
letting yourself be tricked by an aide-de-camp of the emperor.
letting the retreating companies pass by them, when a soldier came up
let themselves be tricked at the crossing of the vienna bridge, you are
“let them pass, i tell you!” repeated prince andrew, compressing his
letter to the emperor begging him to recognize pierre as legitimate, it
letter to murat:
letters to princess mary’s apartments, but did not find him there. he
letters to nicholas from all the household were written and copied out,
letters that had come from the archduke ferdinand, who was in command of
letters sent through the embassy and all the searches made, his body had
letter, he now was.
letter from home and meet one of your own people whom you want to talk
letter are not destroyed, then you will have nothing but the consolation
letter.
letter.
letter.
“let’s come, quick, quick!” and with a glance round, she smiled at
let him do what he vill, but i cannot sacrifice my hussars... bugler,
“let him do it, let him do it,” said dólokhov, smiling.
let her know.”
“let go, i tell you! i will take the responsibility. i myself will go
less than you do, but be a man!”
less sincerely than the twenty-year-old rostóv.
lesson, was about to leave: “mathematics are most important, madam!
less, ate less, slept less, and became weaker every day. princess mary
less a prey to evil and death?—death which ends all and must come
“le roi de prusse?” hippolyte said interrogatively, again laughing,
leonine head. this head, with its remarkably broad brow and cheekbones,
length portrait of catherine the great. the same people were still
lemarrois had just arrived at a gallop with bonaparte’s stern letter,
lëlya’s name day. i will invite two or three people, and if he does
legs, looked directly at prince vasíli with no sign of emotion in her
legs and turned-out toes, climbed the hill with difficulty.) prince
legal heir to everything and you won’t get anything. you must know,
left the chair on which he had been leaning, and—with an air
left like this. every moment is precious. i can’t think why his nieces
left him, rubbing his small white hands.
left foot began convulsively tapping the horse’s side with the spur,
left but to die?” he thought. “well, if need be, i shall do it no
left breast, and stooping down pulled up the left leg of his trousers
left bank of the danube and took up a position for the first time
left alone, pierre went on smiling in the same way. once or twice
left...” a fat major skirted a bush, puffing and falling out of
led along a certain carpet. after that they took his right hand, placed
le charmant hippolyte was surprising by his extraordinary resemblance
leave you cold a thousand times and the thousand and first time thrill
leave of rostóv in the club porch.
leave of her and of lise, his look tender yet proud. she saw him tender
leave me alone with him!”
“leave me alone, please leave me alone! it is all quite the same to
“leave it,” said dólokhov, though he did not seem to be even
least have some for my sake! she must be shown that the blockhead thinks
least disconcerted by this reception. he had just entered, wearing an
learning, was well brought up, and had a pleasant voice; what she said
learning that he was a special messenger led him to another entrance.
learn from suvórov even so simple a thing as the art of crowing like a
learned that dólokhov the brawler, dólokhov the bully, lived in moscow
leaping the furrows, he fled across the field with the impetuosity he
leaning with his arms on the back of the sofa, sat in his former
leaning his elbow on his knee and covering his face with his hand. after
leaned his arms on the back of the sofa and closed his eyes. pierre
leaf, gave it to kozlóvski, stepped quickly to the window, and threw
leading the tsar’s beautiful relay horses covered with embroidered
leader, called les nôtres. * this set, consisting almost exclusively of
lazily and advanced and again halted, receiving no timely orders from
lay in the general progress of the war. when he saw mack and heard the
lay across the bed with his head lower than the pillow, and was smacking
laws of its divine saviour, who preached love and forgiveness of
“lavwúska!” he shouted loudly and angrily, “take it off,
lavrúshka turned all the bedding over, looked under the bed and under
laughter, the shouting of familiar voices, the growling of a bear, and
laughter that convulsed his usually impassive features.
laughter led by natásha. both partners stood still, breathing heavily
laughing, “‘sergéy kuzmích... from all sides... from all sides...
laughing for some reason and shaking himself free.
laughing. “dear, dear!...”
laughing.
laughing.
laughed. “véra’s spiteful; never mind her! and all will come right
laughed spasmodically as he stood in the porch waiting for the vicomte
laughed loudest.
laughed. “i dreamed last night...”—“you were not expecting
laughed at every word he said or that she said herself, not because what
laughed.
laughed.
laugh. and they, too, passed on, so that nesvítski did not learn who
laugh.
latter threw up his arms in surprise saying it was nowhere to be found
latterly spent whole days at home, that is, in prince vasíli’s house
lathe?” asked prince andrew with a scarcely perceptible smile which
lathe and, as usual, did not look round at her.
late that night, when all had separated, denísov with his short hand
latest fashion, with extremely pointed toes and small silver spurs,
latest cut, such as no one else yet had in moscow, and boots of the
later on. oh, how glad i am to have you!”
“late! it’s nearly ten o’clock,” answered natásha’s voice.
late in starting her practice on the clavichord, went into the sitting
last updated: january 21, 2019
last time. and suddenly, in the most casual tone, which made him feel
last summer, is so noble-minded and full of that real youthfulness which
last remaining strength, took hold of his left hand with his right, and
last only his white plumes were visible to rostóv from amid the suites
last moments by not letting him commit this injustice, and not to let
last mademoiselle bourienne gave a scream and ran away. anatole bowed to
last long? it’s all the club and his easygoing nature. even in the
last interview with the gentleman-ranker—“that private dólokhov,
last few days. the antagonists stood forty paces apart at the farther
last deciding seriously to prove to this youth how foolish his words
last campaign, prince peter ivánovich bagratión!” and again his blue
lashes, thick black plaits coiling twice round her head, and a tawny
larrey, was much more likely to end in death than in convalescence.
largest landowner of the province. temptations to pierre’s greatest
larger circle.
large, newly furnished petersburg house, the happy possessor, as people
large leather sofa from prince andrew’s study into the bedroom. on
large estate, boguchárovo, about twenty-five miles from bald hills.
large dark ballroom. all was the same: there were the same old card
large and handsome eyes. he regarded his whole life as a continual round
lannes and was thrown into confusion. bagratión had sent zherkóv
language: english
langeron, with a subtly ironical smile, again glancing round for support
langeron, trying as virulently as possible to sting weyrother’s vanity
langeron’s objections were valid but it was obvious that their chief
lances and the unfolded standards fluttered against their staffs. it
lamp, she stood before it with folded hands for a few moments. a painful
lain in ambush in a ditch, now attacked the french unexpectedly.
“la femme est la compagne de l’homme,” * announced prince
lady visitor.
lady, adding the priest’s clerical title, as if she had no opinion of
“lads!” shouted milorádovich in a loud, self-confident, and cheery
“lads! here’s to our sovereign, the emperor, and victory over
lad’s a fine fellow, a fine fellow! well, come with me now.” he took
lad jumped awkwardly back into the room, tripping over his spurs.
ladies—” he turned with the same request to denísov who was also a
ladies’ end an even chatter of voices was heard all the time, at the
ladies and, leaning on his saber and beating time with his foot, told
ladies and gentlemen than rostóv had ever expected to see him.
lad,” he said, addressing his favorite soldier. “and where is the
lack the bump of paternity.”
lackeys who care nothing for their master’s business. quarante mille
labor was thus increased, though lessened on paper. he did not know
labor is as essential to him, as much a condition of his existence, as
labor but should die of it in a week, so he could not stand my physical
“la balance y est... * a german knows how to skin a flint, as the
“kuzmích... from all sides... and then tears,” someone repeated
kuzmích, asking what the point of the story was as he had not heard it
kutúzov writes...” and he screamed as piercingly as if he wished to
kutúzov, with his uniform unbuttoned so that his fat neck bulged over
kutúzov, with his suite diminished by more than half, rode toward a
kutúzov with his staff and all of us count for nothing. everything is
kutúzov with his eagle nose and puffy face appeared in the doorway.
kutúzov, whom he had overtaken in poland, had received him very kindly,
kutúzov, where he inquired for bolkónski, all the adjutants and even
kutúzov went out into the porch with bagratión.
kutúzov was occupying a nobleman’s castle of modest dimensions near
kutúzov was left with only his own weak and exhausted forces. the
kutúzov walked through the ranks, sometimes stopping to say a few
kutúzov walked slowly and languidly past thousands of eyes which were
kutúzov turned round without answering and his eye happened to fall
kutúzov turned away. the same smile of the eyes with which he had
kutúzov, there is not a single russian in command of a column! the
kutúzov’s whole army. to be able to crush it absolutely he awaited
kutúzov’s suite like a flock of little birds.
kutúzov sighed deeply on finishing this paragraph and looked at the
kutúzov’s headquarters and the staffs of the commanders of columns.
kutúzov’s face as he stood in the open doorway remained perfectly
kutúzov’s expectations that the proposals of capitulation (which were
kutúzov’s, collected in groups and began to talk about the awards,
kutúzov ... recommend borís to him as adjutant! then i shall be at
kutúzov no one spoke of, except some who abused him in whispers,
kutúzov looked sternly at his adjutant and, after a pause, replied:
kutúzov laughed bitterly.
kutúzov, he was sent immediately with a special dispatch to brünn.
kutúzov here woke up, coughed heavily, and looked round at the
kutúzov fell back toward vienna, destroying behind him the bridges over
kutúzov did not reply. he seemed to have forgotten what he had been
kutúzov chose this latter course.
kutúzov bowed with the same smile.
kutúzov accompanied by his adjutants rode at a walking pace behind the
kutúzov.
     *kutúzov.
kurágin was expecting the usual set for cards that evening, after which
kurágins’. all maintained a solemn silence, listening to the words
“kurágin is exquisite when he discusses politics—you should see his
kronq,—chargé d’affaires from copenhagen—a profound intellect,”
kozlóvski, who was sitting at the window with a book.
kozlóvski were squatting on the floor by a tub so near to the commander
kórchevo—a certain khandrikóv—is up to; till now the additional
know yourself that last winter the count made a will by which he left
know what it is to be left a widow without means and with a son you love
“know this, másha: i can’t reproach, have not reproached, and never
know! the prussians are up in arms now. the austrians, you see, are
know that ourselves!” another, without looking round, as though
   knows by experience, now, bagratión,
known). drawing nearer, he recognized in the rhetor a man he knew,
known as la femme la plus séduisante de pétersbourg, * was also there.
know my son’s going, márya dmítrievna? my son is going.”
know myself again.”
know my principles—everything aboveboard! i will ask her tomorrow in
knowledge.
know it is all over, and forever.”
knowing that denísov had a reputation even in poland for the masterly
knowing how. first he spun her round, holding her now with his left, now
know how to express it ... not by a balance of political power....”
know how to equip borís.” she took out her handkerchief and began to
know how to deal with them.”
know how to dance, had liked sitting in this room to watch the ladies
know how fond the count is of her.”
know his character: noble, upright ... but you see he has no one with
know god and hate your life. there is nothing strange in that, my dear
know, but he felt sure it would do so. the locality and the position of
know, and know for certain, that the enjoyment of doing this good is the
know all about it and understand it all,” he said. “you behaved as
know!”
knoll; if they had retreated they would have withdrawn from that too....
knocking over two horses and another tearing off a munition-wagon
knocked three of them over.
knitting, went to the window and leaning out tried to catch the open
knitting a striped scarf for him.
knight. “i’m even weady to dance the pas de châle.”
knew what those society women are, and women in general! my father is
knew what had happened to him as he knew it himself.
knew till after eight o’clock.
knew that when it appeared on her face, she became mute and was not to
knew that. what will be the result? that i shall be the laughingstock of
knew....”
knee with the palm of his hand.
knees, some squatting turkish fashion on the wet grass.
knapsacks conveyed on carts, and the austrian authorities had provided
knapsacks, bayonets, long muskets, and, under the shakos, faces with
kitten which promises to become a beautiful little cat. she evidently
“kiss the doll,” said she.
“kiss me here,” and he touched his cheek: “thanks, thanks!”
kiss me,” and he offered his cheek.
kissing her hand, he left the room with quick resolute strides, without
kissing each other on the face, and then to prince andrew’s surprise
kisses. her looks asked him to forgive her for having dared, by
kissed princess mary’s hand. she did not know how she found the
kissed mademoiselle bourienne’s hand. (this was not etiquette, but
kissed him three times.
kissed him at the same time. only his mother was not there, he noticed
kissed her hand, presenting to her his bald, scented, and shining head,
kissed her forehead.
kissed. her father in jest tried to rouse her jealousy, and she replied
kírsten. the staff captain on his broad-backed, steady mare came at a
king of prussia what he is to do if he is summoned to surrender.... all
king of prussia and others: ‘so much the worse for you. tu l’as
king francis is not much delighted by your victory. even i, a poor
kind, that is the chief thing,” thought princess mary; and fear, which
kind sprang from a second door and a third; more hugging, more kissing,
kinds overtaking one another and blocking the muddy road, three and
kind relation. but, nataly, you know my love for my son: i would do
kind of talk, and at last all stopped. as often happens, the horses of
kindness,” or, “with your excellent heart,” “you are yourself so
kindness!” he turned to go.
kindly, smiling, handsome face and moist eyes. nesvítski could hardly
“kindly return to your posts,” said the staff officer trying to
“kindly let this cart pass. don’t you see it’s a woman?” said
“kind...ly let—them—pass!”
kindle in all hearts the flame of virtue. share thy happiness with thy
kindle fires and make a noise to deceive us.”
kindhearted, and because they—friends from childhood—had to think
kind, because he has been a benefactor to them both. as sterne says:
“kill the germans!” shouted one.
kill me.” but at the same time, his left arm felt as heavy as if
killed, you are a fool and are lost for certain. but go with the firm
killed them, yes!” said he, frowning angrily and turning away from
killed.” rook tried to rise on his forelegs but fell back, pinning his
killed by a cannon ball—struck in the breast before our regiment.”
killed anyone, or insulted or wished harm to anyone? why such a terrible
killed and if i have a son, do not let him be taken away from you—as i
kiev province, where he had the greatest number of serfs, taking with
kerchief, and the loose skin that hung under her chin.
kept turning his horse in front of the squadron.
kept looking round toward the drawing room door. it opened and nicholas
kept coming into her eyes. anna mikháylovna, with the letter, came on
keep you long as an adjutant: a bad position! tell him i remember
keeping pierre close beside her, entered the room even more boldly than
keep from laughter provoked by a swarthy hussar officer who walked
keen-sighted a companion. “you know, you see right through people.
keen interest in the whole affair. you know she is very gracious to
karl give no signs of life and make blunder after blunder. kutúzov
kámenski, visited the english club, and was on intimate terms with a
kaiser alexander hoch!” *(2) said he, quoting words often repeated by
just visible behind a screen. a small dog began to bark.
just under the icons; his large thick hands outside the quilt. into the
“just to flutter the nuns a bit. they say there are italian girls
just then zherkóv entered the room.
just then at a distance behind kutúzov was heard the sound of regiments
just then another visitor entered the drawing room: prince andrew
just then a closed carriage and another with a hood drove up to the
just such a story—they would either not have believed him or, still
“just see where it carries to!” a soldier near by said sternly,
“just see, the german sausage is making tracks, too!”
just returned from vienna, two diplomatists, the old aunt, a young man
just returned from abroad where he had been educated, and this was his
“just look at the master! a regular eagle he is!” loudly remarked
just left.... it is true that it was hot there,” he added, modestly.
just completed. he lay with his head propped high on the pillows. his
just come out of a hot bath.”
just before dinner, count ilyá rostóv presented his son to bagratión,
just at moments when such thoughts occurred to him, he would ask in a
just as the mother and son, having reached the middle of the hall, were
just as the architect, gardener, or princess mary did, till the prince
just as prince andrew was a young man who gave promise of rising high
just as prince andrew met nesvítski and zherkóv, there came toward
just as in the mechanism of a clock, so in the mechanism of the military
just as in a clock, the result of the complicated motion of innumerable
“just as i may suppose you to be deluded,” said pierre, with a faint
just as he went in he saw that the nurse was hiding something from him
just as he was going to open it the sounds ceased, the door opened, and
just as at ulm... it is...”—he seemed to be trying to find the right
just above his ear.
junction advisable, meant, among other arguments in support of his view,
jump, túshin not taking his pipe from his mouth ran from gun to gun,
jumped down. he smelt strongly of rum.
julie wrote in french:
julie
joy to give my franz a thaler, or let him go with his liebchen to the
joys and sorrows of this world—overflowed the great grief within her.
joyfully up to pierre. his face was so unusually triumphant that pierre
joyfully that the men themselves were awed by their multitude and the
joyful it seemed, that her son, the scarcely perceptible motion of whose
joyful, but an animal, squirrel-like expression. she paused as if she
joyful and mysterious taking place within her.
joy at the approach of the emperors. one voice was heard shouting:
joy and happiness. on receiving the order he gave his horse the rein
jovial old gentleman, who standing beside his tall and stout partner,
jolted over the stony road. some of them were talking (he heard russian
jokes, sit on the cannon, and meanwhile a french battalion gets to
joke, and purposely trying to appear stupider than he really was.
joins the allies, austria’s hand will be forced and there will be war.
joined kutúzov at braunau now separated from the russian army, and
jingling sound it presented arms. then amidst a dead silence the
“je vous aime!” * he said, remembering what has to be said at such
jest was unacceptable and had not come off. he grew confused.
jests fell flat, news was not interesting, and the animation was
jests and gossip.
jest.
jerked away his plate, which tíkhon briskly caught. “suvórov!...
jaw trembling and was hardly able to mutter: “i don’t know... your
“jacob, bring a bottle!” shouted the host, a tall, handsome fellow
jacket.
jabbering! fine, isn’t it? it’s all the frenchy can do to keep up
“i won’t tell anyone!” and she ran off at once to sónya.
“i won’t say he is out of sorts, but i fancy he would like to be
“i wonder, is it not too late to administer unction?” asked the
“i wished to get a nap, mon cousin, but i can’t.”
“i will, your excellency,” said timókhin, showing by his smile that
“i will the bridge fire,” he said in a solemn tone as if to announce
“i will tell you frankly,” said prince vasíli in the tone of
“i will,” replied natásha.
“i will, i will, only tell me! you won’t? then i will go and tell at
“i will give the order.”
“i will do so,” said prince andrew, moving away from the map.
“i will do it all, father,” he said.
“i will allow no one to call me a liar!” cried rostóv. “he told
“i? what have i...?” stammered pierre.
“i was very much surprised when i heard of it,” said prince andrew.
“i was told a charming moscow story today and must treat you to it.
i was to blame for not understanding her, for not understanding that
“i was there,” said rostóv angrily, as if intending to insult the
i was saying, prince vasíli is the next heir through his wife, but the
i was right. without boasting, you know, i may say that i know the army
“i was going to ask you. i know nothing except that it was all i could
“i was coming to tell you so.”
“i was attached; i’m on duty.”
“i want to teach this young man how to shoe a horse,” said
“i want to know!”
“i want nothing, and i won’t be anyone’s adjutant.”
“i want a great deal, count! i want five hundred rubles,” and taking
“i’ve seen him myself!”
i’ve nothing against it,” the prince said to himself, “but he must
“i’ve come to sit with you a bit, másha,” said the nurse, “and
“i’ve come to say good-by.”
“i’ve been sent back to the regiment all on account of that devil,
ivánovich (who always went into a corner to blow his nose on his
ivánovich kutúzov:
ivánovich. he is in a very bad humor, very morose. be prepared.”
it you talked about?” and prince andrew crooked a third finger. “ah,
it!’ ‘yes, let’s!’ say the others. and off they go and take the
“it would not be turned off the field even on the tsarítsin
it would not ache—it would be well—if only they did not pull it, but
“it would have been hard to drive up, your honor,” he added. “i
it would have been difficult for a face to express greater respect and
“it would be good,” thought prince andrew, glancing at the icon his
it would be different if you grudged losing a laborer—that’s how i
it worth thinking or speaking of it at such a moment? at a time of such
it won’t be your skirmishing at dürrenstein, or gunpowder at all,
it with you?...”
it were not my duty i would not talk to you for a moment”), was
it were not his. he examined his hand carefully, vainly trying to find
it was true that a view over nearly the whole russian position and the
it was the second night that neither of them had slept, watching the boy
“it was the officer, your honor, stained it,” answered the
it was, the disorder was readily and naturally attributed to the stupid
it was that the pain distracted him and prevented his seeing what he had
it was st. natalia’s day and the name day of two of the rostóvs—the
it was rumored that savary had been sent to propose to alexander
it was prince andrew. the first thing he saw on riding up to the space
it was pleasant and touching to see these little girls in love; but
it was plain that this “well?” referred to much that they both
it was plain that this cadet had already repeatedly asked for a lift and
it was past one o’clock when pierre left his friend. it was a
it was one of those march nights when winter seems to wish to resume its
it was not the dress, but the face and whole figure of princess mary
it was not so, that i had no right to do it. and so it turns out.”
it was no longer, as before, a dark, unseen river flowing through the
it was nine o’clock in the morning. the fog lay unbroken like a sea
it was napoleon accompanied by two aides-de-camp. bonaparte riding
“it was my fault, mon père,” interceded the little princess, with a
it was long since the rostóvs had news of nicholas. not till midwinter
it was long since rostóv had felt such enjoyment from music as he
it was long before their conversation could settle on anything. they
it was late in the evening when they entered the palace at olmütz
it was just the moment before a big dinner when the assembled guests,
it was in july, 1805, and the speaker was the well-known anna pávlovna
it was, in fact, solely to meet prince vasíli that she had obtained an
it was impossible to get rid of them.
it was evident that this strange, strong man was under the irresistible
it was evident that prince andrew was not interested in such abstract
it was evident that he performed his duty as a subordinate with even
it was evident that he did not like the vicomte and was aiming his
it was a warm, rainy, autumnal day. the wide expanse that opened out
it was already quite dark when prince andrew rattled over the paved
“it was all they could do to rescue the poor man,” continued the
it was all that they could do to get the guns up the rise aided by the
“it von’t go begging,” replied the german with a smile.
it under your head like a treasure,” said rostóv. “i put it just
it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included with this
it turns out that we have landed ourselves in war, and what is more,
it turns out that ‘the enemy of the human race’ pays no heed to
it to its destination and make use of it.
it to be alleged that he had been the first to leave the range of fire,
it timidly and tenderly on her son’s arm, “be affectionate and
it. telyánin took the purse and began carelessly slipping it into the
“it’s wonderful what a lot of our troops have gathered, lads! last
its usual semblance of a smile.
its use, he does not believe in the master who made it. to know him is
its upper lip covered with tiny black hair.
it’s true he has been reinstated, but how could they fail to do that?
it’s too late now when vienna is occupied by the french army!”
its thunder joining the roar of the whole line along which he had
“it’s the enemy?... no!... yes, see it is!... for certain.... but
“it’s that protégé of yours, that sweet princess drubetskáya,
it’s splendid. i am very glad to have made your acquaintance. it’s
“it’s plain that they have not all gone yet, prince,” said
“it’s not true!”
“it’s not there.”
“it’s not that i don’t remember—i know what he is like, but not
it’s not pleasant, but what’s to be done, my dear fellow? you landed
“it’s nothing,” replied prince andrew.
“it’s nothing, nothing; leave me alone!” sobbed sónya.
“it’s not going to be a ghost story?” said he, sitting down beside
“it’s not at all from friendship,” declared nicholas, flaring
it’s not all the same to us! am i not right, denísov? it’s not the
its last march the day before—presented a well-ordered array of two
“it’s in the inlaid portfolio that he keeps under his pillow,”
“it’s impossible,” replied another.
it, she was herself in such high spirits at that moment, so far from
its handsome, sensual mouth, and its cold, majestic expression, was
“it’s empty.”
itself to him. he was already enjoying that happiness when that
itself, rejoicing at the emperors’ approach, had naturally burst into
itself, a petty german town, rostóv saw the emperor again. in the
itself?”
“it seems that while he was abroad this young man was allowed to do
“it seems that there will be no need to bring mary out, suitors are
“it seems funny to me,” said pierre, “that you, you should
it seemed to pierre that he grew embarrassed. pierre himself grew still
it seemed to pierre, sunk in profound and calm meditation. his servant
it seemed to him that he was being fired at. “what? what? what?... cut
it seemed to her that not only did everybody know that her fate would be
it seemed so natural to pierre that everyone should like him, and it
it seemed quite natural that they should cry, and apparently it never
it seemed as if nothing in that voice could be altered without spoiling
it seemed as if from some words borís had spoken that evening about the
“it’s different on different days,” answered the captain. “one
it’s definite and one is rid of the old tormenting doubt.” pierre
its broad temples and close-cropped hair, and looked at bezúkhov. the
it’s as if it had been done on purpose, on purpose. besides, suppose
“it’s as if a dam had burst,” said the cossack hopelessly. “are
“it’s a shame for a soldier to steal; a soldier must be honest,
“it’s andrew!” thought princess mary. “no it can’t be, that
“it’s ancient history,” said another, guessing that it referred to
“it’s a long time since we met,” he said. “thanks for coming.
        “it’s a long, long way.
“it’s all very well for you... i am not envious... i love you and
“it’s all up! i’m lost!” thought he. “now a bullet through my
“it’s all the same to me,” he said. “i only want to see whether
“it’s all the same now. if the emperor is wounded, am i to try to
“it’s all the fault of these fellows on the staff that there’s
“it’s all over; but i am a coward—yes, a coward!” thought
“it’s all about the war,” the count shouted down the table. “you
“it’s a lackey’s job!”
“it’s a bad business,” said the general without answering him,
“it’s a bad business, eh?”
i trouble myself about you, and you also know quite well that what i
it right to refuse a duty to which he had been appointed by the emperor
it really happened, it would have been necessary to make an effort of
it,’” prince andrew continued after a short silence, again quoting
it, or why it had to be told in russian, still anna pávlovna and the
it or not, and how they would cross it, agitated them all.
it on the field at schön grabern. young rostóv’s ecstatic voice
it, on the crest of the opposite hill, the village of schön grabern
it on something, and told him to hold a pair of compasses to his left
it on his coat and supported himself with it. his frowning face was
“i told you it was all lumps and holes!” the little princess
it, next day, november 15, after dinner he again went to olmütz and,
it necessary to introduce himself, and without experiencing the least
“it must be one of ours, a prisoner. yes. can it be that they will
it might really have been so? could one possibly make out amid all that
“it may be treachery,” said prince andrew, vividly imagining the
“it may be he or it may be nothing,” muttered the hussar. “it’s
it’ll be worse if he fires the bridge. see, here’s an officer jammed
“it’ll be worse for you. bogdánich is vindictive and you’ll pay
it is. you must know. we will take it at once and show it to the
“it is very strange, mon monsieur prince,” said the staff officer.
“it is very good of you, monsieur pierre, to come and visit a poor
“it is too late now, it’s done; besides i love her,” thought
“it is the sword of frederick the great which i...” she began, but
“it is the buonapartists who say that,” replied the vicomte without
it is terrible to think.... this is my son,” she added, indicating
“it is some letter of recommendation... what the devil do i want it
it is said ‘there are thieves among the pávlograd officers!’ but
it is past midnight—cannot now be altered,” said he. “you have
“it is of great importance to me,” she said, turning with a smile
“it is now my turn to ask you ‘why?’ mon cher,” said bolkónski.
it is. my dear pet!”
it is for you to talk or think of such matters. it is no easier for
“it is for the reasson, my goot sir,” said he, speaking with a
   it is for thee thus swells her heart,
“it is dreadful, dreadful!” she was saying, “but cost me what it
“it is done!” she said to the count, pointing triumphantly to the
“it is an illness, there’s no other way of explaining it,” said
“it is all very well for rostóv, whose father sends him ten thousand
“it is all, all her fault,” he said to himself; “but what of that?
it is a bit of mack. we are macked),” he concluded, feeling that he
it. if you refuse him on my account, i must tell you the whole truth. i
“i thought today’s fete had been canceled. i confess all these
“i thought perhaps something had happened,” she said with her
i think there were not many such gallant sons of the fatherland out
“i think the battle will be lost, and so i told count tolstóy and
“i think,” said the prince with a smile, “that if you had been
“i think i may congratulate you,” whispered anna pávlovna to the
“i... that’s different. why speak of me? i don’t want any other
“it has begun. here it is!” thought prince andrew, feeling the
it had the commander in chief continued to look at him, and so kutúzov,
it had appeared. the count sat on the sofa between two guests who were
it. fr... fr... fr! and don’t i see that that idiot had eyes only for
it. feel in your pockets.”
it escape from his handsome mouth in rings. this was lieutenant berg, an
“i tell you,” shouted denísov, “he’s a fine fellow.”
i tell you he is in our hands, that’s certain! but what was most
i tell you buonaparte was a great tactician? here, he says the same
i tell her how i’ve seen the emperor?) natásha... take my
it, easily find a way to prepare for the enemy the fate he deserves.
it dashed, some forward and some back, drowning one another.
“it can’t be!” said rostóv. “it must have been someone else.”
it can’t be helped!” said the count, shrugging his shoulders and
“it can’t be helped! it happens to everyone!” said the son, with
it can’t be a square—for they are not drawn up for that.”
it. but at that moment an adjutant galloped up with a message from the
it. at that moment it meant nothing to him who might be standing over
it at that age.”
it appears that we are within sight of the enemy and must give battle.
it...” answered her son coldly. “but i have promised and will do it
it and wished to hear it again. in her voice there was a virginal
it and saw telyánin’s horse at the porch.
it. and he is so clever and so good!” said natásha. “don’t
italy and on the rhine; how fifty thousand russians and as many english
it all very well for prince vasíli told me himself. besides, cyril
“it all depends on the bringing up,” remarked the visitor.
italian to give her lessons.”
italian: “‘dio mi l’ha dato. guai a chi la tocchi!’’
it?”
it.”
it.
it.
is very unhappy with her father. she is a relation of yours, princess
is vanity, all falsehood, except that infinite sky. there is nothing,
is to take care of yourself. leave it to those who are no longer fit for
“i still can’t understand what you are afraid of,” said prince
“is this your saber?” he shouted.
“is this your saber?” asked pétya. “or is it yours?” he said,
“is this the way to the princesses’ apartments?” asked anna
“is this good or bad?” pierre asked himself. “it is good for me,
“is there sufficient forage in krems?”
is the only thing left me—not singing!” his thoughts ran on. “go
is the only difference between them.” he said this smiling in a way
is the one held by the majority of people, and is the invariable fruit
“is the englishman bragging?... eh? is it all right?” said anatole.
is the baby born?”
is that the emperor is here. how he looked at me and wished to say
“is that so? and what did he say?” inquired bolkónski.
“is that mary practicing? let’s go quietly and take her by
is such men as he who decide the fate of nations,” added bolkónski
is, stormed and stormed and stormed! it was not a matter of life but
is so i don’t know...”
is so fond of?” he remembered his mother’s love for him, and his
is pua’ as on the fihst day of cweation... who’s that now? send him
“is papa at home?” he asked.
“isn’t she too young? i have heard that it harms the voice to train
“isn’t she exquisite?” she said to pierre, pointing to the stately
isn’t it logical?
is now rushing along the road to brünn and will be here in a day or
is now on the staff.”
is not so, then...”
is not my fault that i want it and want nothing but that and live only
is nothing but a trick! he has retreated and ordered the rearguard to
is not abashed now, so she cannot be a bad woman!” he had often begun
is my witness,” and she made the sign of the cross, “i love her so
is much better than ours.”
“is it worth while noticing trifles?” he reined in his horse with
“is it true that austrians have been beaten?” asked dólokhov.
“is it possible?” exclaimed anna mikháylovna. “oh, how awful!
“is it for visitors you’ve got yourself up like that, eh?” said
“is it certain?” she said.
is interrupted. he listened to what langeron said, as if remarking,
is how i explain it to myself. it can’t be helped!”
“‘i showed them the path to glory, but they did not follow
“i should think not,” said véra, “because there can never be
“i should think he has a score of them.”
“i should not be doing my duty, count,” he said in timid tones,
“i should never dare to say that i know the truth,” said the mason,
“i should like to speak well of them, but as far as i know the facts,
“i should like to go to kurágin’s,” thought he.
“i should like,” said the vicomte, “to ask how monsieur explains
“is he really to be my husband, this stranger who is so kind—yes,
“i shall scarcely be able to avail myself of your hospitality,
“i shall probably die before you. so remember, these are my memoirs;
i shall expect you, drubetskóy. au revoir!” exclaimed prince andrew,
i shall conclude will be worthy of my people, of you, and of myself.
i shall be very charmed to see you tonight between 7 and 10—annette
i shall be in a more prominent position,” continued berg, “and
“i shall be delighted to meet them,” said the prince. “but
“i shall at any rate not run after a young man before visitors...”
“i shall always remember that in this world one must expect no reward,
is good to have a friend like the prince,” she said, smiling at prince
is going as a cadet. there’s no one to interest himself for him. to
is for myself.”
“is everything quite all right?”
is denísov!”
is connected with the montmorencys through the rohans, one of the best
is called weak character, do not seek a confidant in their troubles. he
is betraying us! russia alone must save europe. our gracious sovereign
“i say, we’ve been in the front line! our regiment attacked!” said
“i say, this is folly! he’ll be killed,” said this more sensible
“i say so,” he continued desperately, “because the bourbons fled
“i say, shall we soon be clear? they say the cavalry are blocking the
“i say, rostóv,” said dólokhov clearly, smiling and looking
“i say, fédeshon!... did he say when the battles are to begin? you
“i say, father, joking apart, is she very hideous?” anatole asked,
“i say, come round some evening and we’ll have a game of faro!”
“i say, berg, my dear fellow,” said rostóv, “when you get a
“i saw you riding this morning...” he added.
“i saw the pávlograd hussars attack there, your excellency,” chimed
“i saw him myself,” replied the man with a self-confident smile of
is a very good thing, but not for you—i don’t suppose you ever had
is an admirable book which calms and elevates the soul. adieu! give
is a mob of scoundrels and not an army,” he was thinking as he went
is all i have to say to you. the count is very, very ill, and you must
“i said from the first,” declared anna pávlovna referring to
irritation.
irresolution communicated itself to the men.
irresistibly attractive to pierre.
irresistible human need for sleep. he really was asleep. weyrother, with
irreproachably washed, brushed, and buttoned, held his pipe in the
irrepressible hatred.
irreparable. there was no insult on either side. allow me to
ironical voice.
“i request you to have the goodness to change your coat,” he said as
“i rely on you, my dear,” said anna pávlovna, also in a low tone.
“i recognize you only too well, too well.”
i really take it? how fortunate!” he thought.
“i quite understand,” answered princess mary, with a sad smile.
“i promised to pay tomorrow,” said nicholas.
“i peg of you yourself not to mix in vot is not your business!”
“i ought to tell you that i do not believe... do not believe in
i only wanted to know your opinion,” and anna pávlovna let pierre go.
iogel’s were the most enjoyable balls in moscow. so said the mothers
“i often think, though, perhaps it’s a sin,” said the princess,
“i often think,” she continued after a short pause, drawing nearer
in zherkóv, looking uneasily around. he had not seen the hussars all
in which kutúzov entrusted them to the humanity of the enemy; and
in war on our own frontiers, with and for the king of prussia. we have
involuntarily, so much so that the only thing left to do seemed to be
involuntarily noticed that one of them was bleeding, and galloped on.
involuntarily, came up and sat down beside him.
involuntarily came closer to him.
invitation to anna pávlovna’s reception and had sat listening to
invincibility of the french, and the minister of war does not even care
in vienna knew him and valued him. he was not one of those many
invent him,” said the wit shinshín, parodying the words of voltaire.
invalid,” said anna pávlovna, exchanging an alarmed glance with her
invalid chair, a wax taper in his left hand, was leaning his left arm on
intriguer!” she hissed viciously, and tugged with all her might at the
intoxication. he felt as though he were the center of some important and
into which we have been drawn, god knows how or why. not only where you
into the water, or when he challenged a man to a duel without any
into the water. he tried to right himself but fell in up to his waist.
into the valley. he greeted the men of the foremost regiment and gave
in to the utmost, their red necks squeezed into their stiff collars, and
into the naïvely symmetrical pose of an egyptian statue, evidently
in to the minister of war. five minutes later he returned and bowing
into the insignificant, trifling, and artificial interests uniting that
into the distance, at the waters of the danube, at the sky, and at the
into the corridor and met—coming out of the door of the emperor’s
into step with a hop, looked back angrily, and through the ominous
into sobs.
in too”—different voices were saying in the crowd, as the men looked
intonation, look, and expression, pricked up her ears from the beginning
“in token of obedience, i ask you to undress.”
in to inform the commander in chief of this and, availing himself
into his room one evening in the official and ceremonious manner in
into her radiant smile.
into her heart an impulse that was against his will. my wife—as she
into borís’ eyes. after he had gone pierre continued pacing up and
“into action! into action! bring him a bottle for such news! but how
into action as arranged, and after going behind other columns for
into a careless, merry smile. “what am i? an illegitimate son!”
intimately regretted that he had died so young, leaving a pregnant wife
intimately. prince andrew spoke with some animation and interest only of
in this room it was almost dark; only two tiny lamps were burning before
in this part of the house and did not even know of the existence of
in the world and above everything in the world. “what were losses, and
in the village of hosjeradek there were russian troops retiring from
in the viennese drawing rooms and often had an influence on matters
in the third circle, narýshkin was speaking of the meeting of the
in the sutler’s hut without his boots.” he recognized the agreeable,
in the streets of petersburg in an old uniform. he made friends with
in the spring of 1807 he decided to return to petersburg. on the way he
in the small circular room. around the table all who were at count
“in the seventh place, try, by the frequent thought of death,” the
in the second room of the inn the lieutenant was sitting over a dish of
in the same tone.
in the same tone.
in the same order in which they had entered but with redder faces, the
in the room next their bedroom there was a confusion of sabers,
in the rearguard, dokhtúrov and others rallying some battalions kept up
in the passage denísov, with a pipe, was squatting on the threshold
in the other the letter, and pressing them alternately to her lips.
in the night he called his valet and told him to pack up to go to
in the morning anna mikháylovna said to pierre:
in the morning all that was left of the night mist on the heights was
in the mist.
in the military profession, so to an even greater extent bilíbin gave
in the midst of the third écossaise there was a clatter of chairs being
in the midst of a conversation on political matters anna pávlovna burst
in the middle of the line that had seemed so terrible—and now he
in the middle of his story, just as he was saying: “you cannot imagine
in the meantime, not only was it known in the maidservants’ rooms that
in the mean jocular way common to anonymous letters said that he saw
in the meadow behind the village, three of them are dragging something.
in the light of the dull autumn evening, mounted men coming toward him.
in the letter from his parents was enclosed a letter of recommendation
in their power.
in their own play.
in their childlike glee, aroused by the fire and their luck in
in the house was done in haste at that time), and pierre and anna
in the house on the povarskáya rose before him with such vividness,
in the hair, the hair combed up, and the blue scarf arranged lower on
in the garden, or superintending the building that was always going on
in the fresh morning air were now heard, not two or three musket shots
in the evening,” reported rostóv, stooping forward with his hand at
in the evening andrew and pierre got into the open carriage and drove to
in the evening, after supper, when all were about to retire, anatole
in the emperors’ suite were the picked young orderly officers of the
in the emperor’s suite all exchanged rapid looks that expressed
in the drawing room, waiting for borís to come out. she was already
in the drawing room the conversation was still going on.
in the drawing room, talking to the little princess and mademoiselle
in the dining room, which like all the rooms in the house was
in the deathlike stillness only the tramp of horses was heard. this
in the darkness, it seemed as though a gloomy unseen river was flowing
in the count’s room, which was full of tobacco smoke, they talked
in the country.”
in the common motion the result and aim of which are beyond its ken.
in the best possible manner, and feeling that he was doing it well he
in the beginning of the winter of 1805-6 pierre received one of anna
in the baggage train he had passed that morning on the znaim road seven
in the autumn the rostóvs returned to moscow. early in the winter
in the autumn of 1806 everybody had again begun talking of the war with
in the assurance that the rumors about the emperor being wounded were
in the army, besides the subordination and discipline prescribed in the
in the afternoon, having made all his calls, he was returning to
in that happy mood in which everything seems possible and everything
“in that case we can go,” said willarski. “my carriage is at your
“in that case he is inviting his doom by awaiting our attack,” said
“in that case...” began willarski, but pierre interrupted him.
interview? why negotiate, and above all why retreat, when to retreat is
intervene. prince andrew looked at túshin from under his brows and his
interrupting one another and mingling with the rustling of dresses and
interpreted. the life of old prince bolkónski, prince andrew, and
interfere, making a scene on the very threshold of a dying man’s room?
interests,” said bilíbin.
interesting but hardly feasible.”
interesting and entertaining. after the field marshal’s departure
interesting.”
interested the minister of war less than any of the other matters he was
intercourse with young women.
intention to part from her forever.
intention should he try to direct his whole force against our faithful
intention of proposing, and today or tomorrow he would probably ask
intention of killing your man as quickly and surely as possible, and
intends to expose his precious person to the chances of war. god grant
intending to rest if but for a moment, eat something, and try to sort
intended to visit all his estates and see for himself how far his orders
intended to take up our position and begin the action, but were on this
intended for you too. give them to the woman whom you shall honor most
intemperance, and his mouth twitched nervously. the general looked the
intelligent, how is it you don’t see that if the count has written a
intelligent, and resolute young man.
intellectual pride,” said the princess, following the train of her own
insufficient, and he kept expecting something more, more and yet more.
instrument he could not begin to speak.
instructions to major ekonómov, he could not help taking notice of the
instructions his father had sent and taking the correspondence and his
instructing in reading, writing, and religion. on all his estates pierre
in step, and each one of these hundreds of soldiers seemed to be
instead of that he only excited himself more and more.
instead of firing it, flung it at the frenchman and ran with all his
instead of black. the regimental commander walked with his jerky steps
instantly his regret at not having been in action and his dejected mood
instantly dropped them again. all the blood which had seemed congested
in spite of this, both the face and words of his new acquaintance were
in spite of the animation of his speech, bilíbin did not forget to
in spite of repeated demands boots had not been issued by the austrian
in spite of prince andrew’s disagreeable, ironical tone, in spite of
in spite of himself (although he knew how far it was safe to trust
inspired by the emperors’ presence were eager for action. the
in some way essential.
in some respects a brilliant match for the dowerless, orphan girl. from
insoluble.
insolent intelligence of his eyes, produced an effect which made it
insolent, hard, and mocking face as he had seen it at the banquet, and
in society it seems as if there were something in them, but there’s
in silence, and then the same joke was repeated.
insignificance, aware of being but a drop in that ocean of men, and
“in short, hoping to settle matters by taking up a warlike attitude,
in separate piles, began counting them.
insane—unprofitable to himself, to the count, and to the serfs—made
in rostóv’s soul! and this something was apart from everything else
in retirement and had now no influence in political affairs, every high
inquiry. the son noticed that an expression of profound sorrow suddenly
inquiring what she was to do with these people. on leaving them, anna
inquiringly at the young prince, wondering what would follow.
inquiring look. he was about to stoop over her hand and kiss it, but
in pure, correct french many interesting details about the armies and
in princess drubetskáya’s case he felt, after her second appeal,
in petersburg, as in moscow, pierre found the same atmosphere of
in petersburg and that a copy, which he had himself seen, had that day
in perplexity, and only later grasped that a stroke was an attack of
in passing prince vasíli seized pierre’s hand and said to anna
“in our temples we recognize no other distinctions,” read the grand
in our lack of understanding we see only our weakness and his
in our house, aren’t they?”
in our army. his own strategic plan, which obviously could not now
in only his stockings, rose when they entered, smiling not altogether
in one company dinner was ready, and the soldiers were gazing eagerly
in on bad company. rostóv flushed up on noticing this, but he did not
in october, 1805, a russian army was occupying the villages and towns of
inn, where two roads parted. both of them led downhill and troops were
in no way binding) might give time for part of the transport to pass,
in november, 1805, prince vasíli had to go on a tour of inspection
in november, 1805, announcing that he and his son would be paying him
innocent youth.
innocent and untried?”
inner laboratory of his mind in a portable form as if intentionally, so
in my opinion was nothing of the kind. we civilians, as you know, have
in military matters.
in me. i have been told that her brother anatole was in love with her
in mary bogdánovna’s trembling white hands.
in love with the tsar,” he said.
in love. the marshals stood behind him not venturing to distract his
in life, one she had not yet experienced, irreparable and
in lace-frilled drawers, and feet in low slippers—was just at that
in kishenëv with only a moldavian peasant woman to help instead of a
in killed, wounded, sick, and stragglers; though a number of sick and
in kiev pierre found some people he knew, and strangers hastened to make
injuries—and that men attribute the greatest merit to skill in killing
in it by spring.
in.’ i do not know how far he was justified in saying so.”
in his writing table, and this is a paper he has forgotten....”
in his voice a sincerity and weakness pierre had never observed in it
in his tone, “my dear,” whether they were above or below him in
in his saddle.
in his movements, in his walk, scarcely a trace was left of his former
in his mind an unsettled question he always tried to stifle, one about
in his large elongated hand on blue paper as follows:
in his horse, said to him:
in his horse before the emperor.
in his hand, was sitting there with a smile of deep emotion on his face,
in his fine gray eyes, and on his delicate lips the same capacity for
inheritance; but i do know that since this young man, whom we all used
in her eyes, which, for an instant, glanced at pierre, prince vasíli
in hand.
in half an hour all was again in order, only the squares had become gray
inhabitants on whom they were quartered. braunau was the headquarters of
in great russia, which formed the larger part of his property, and left
ingratiating and appealing smile, and took his hand that he might not go
in good spirits, he mounted his horse and rode out into the field
in god’s hands. you may die in your bed or god may spare you in a
in geometry were among the greatest delights of her life.
“in general we must turn this bloodthirsty soldier to more humane
in general at bald hills the little princess lived in constant fear, and
in front of them rows of gray cloaks were already visible through the
in front of them, and that the columns moving near pratzen constituted
in front of him was misty darkness. rostóv could see nothing, peer as
in front of him and that the enemy must be at least six miles away.
in french out of all this, showing all the news we have had of the
in french.
in four different provinces. he had arranged this for himself so as to
“inform the prince that labor has begun,” said mary bogdánovna,
“inform the prince that i the bridge fired!” said the colonel
informing the prince that as soon as the action began he had withdrawn
informed him of a victory and stated strategically the position of the
influence of the dark, graceful girl who loved another.
influence of a variety of exciting sensations. only pierre and
influence in society, however, is a capital which has to be economized
inflammable material on the bridge must be reinspected.”
infants in arms met him to thank him for releasing them from hard
infantry officer who just before the battle had rushed out of
infantry in different uniforms; now was heard the rhythmic beat of
infantry, cavalry, and artillery. how was it that two guns were
infantry, and having reached the village of gruntersdorf they halted. it
infantry and cavalry and took up its appointed position. not only the
infantry.
infamous, vile woman!”
in exactly the same manner. nesvítski laughed and nudged the others to
inevitably have to learn what lies the other side of death. but you are
inevitable pain showed itself.
“i never invited them. they came to disturb my life—and there is not
“i never go back on my word,” he said. “besides, sónya is so
“i never could understand how nataly made up her mind to marry that
i need.” but when he came across a man of position his instinct
individual commanders and inquiring into details of the action and our
indistinct words, shrugging his shoulders and gesticulating.
indisposition was the strong impression made on his sensitive mind by
in discussion with the sole object of offending one another. but the
indiscretion, one might ask about our plans.
indiscretion, nodded and said: “i hope to see you again, but i also
indignantly. “i come to ask you what to do, and you call it
indifferently to his wife’s chatter with prince hippolyte who had also
indifferently quiescent till the moment when motion is transmitted
indifferent hands of the minister of war and the polite adjutant. the
indifferent air, and glanced into the little drawing room. pierre and
indifference, began to hum to himself, producing a queer sound which
indications, he saw clearly that the allies believed him to be far away
indication of something new and stern showed round the mouth.
indicating her to the gentlemen, said: “voilà marie!” princess mary
indicating a captive french dragoon who was being brought in on foot by
indicated that if he was not dancing it was because he would not and not
“indeed? yes, yes!” said borís, with a smile. “and we too have
     * “indeed, sire, we shall do everything it is possible to
incredible, unheard-of, and impossible event of a russian defeat,
increasing, seemed like someone’s breathing. he listened intently to
increased tenfold, and their life, which seemed to have been passed in
in couples and he himself rode along the line trying to master the
in conversation—count rostopchín, prince yúri dolgorúkov, valúev,
inconvenient, unseemly, and impossible to do so.
in consequence of this discovery his whole manner of life, all
incomprehensible—the death of one she loved.
in comparison with eternity?”
incomparably higher than a general, and according to which what was
income which was said to amount to five hundred thousand rubles a year,
inclination—practical business.
in clean notes, was lying ready under a handkerchief on the countess’
in chief would be. though the aide-de-camp did not know these
in chief’s office were gathered kutúzov himself, weyrother, and the
in chief, and from the noisy laughter of the cossacks holding the
incessantly, repeating petersburg reminiscences and even phrases. prince
in brünn everybody attached to the court was packing up, and the heavy
in bonaparte’s address to his army at the beginning of the campaign,
“in a word, a hearty one...” said the subaltern, laughing (the
inaudible, voice.
inattentive, but you had talent—oh yes, you had talent!”
in attaching himself as an orderly officer to prince bagratión. he now
in a tone only used by persons who are certain that those they call will
in a shovel—the guests who had been scattered about in different rooms
inappropriate, she was unable to stop him.
in any case. he has forwarded me a letter from borís. thank god, borís
“in an hour’s time, i should say.”
in, and sinking heavily into an armchair.
in a moment the men came running gaily from their campfires and began
“in a moment. À propos,” she added, becoming calm again, “i am
“in a minute, in a minute,” he said, dipping his pen.
in amazement.
in all sincerity—not as a future mason but as an honest man: have you
in a day or two we shall all have to take part in a greater and more
inactive, would also soon have to meet the enemy.
inactive and has left the university to join the army. i will confess to
in a corner of the room something red and tiny gave a grunt and squealed
in a corner of the hut stood a standard captured from the french, and
in a cheerful voice:
in accord with his intentions. prince andrew noticed, however, that
inability to enter a room and converse in it was, however, redeemed by
in a bad temper, and in the morning tíkhon had already advised the
in 1806 the old prince was made one of the eight commanders in chief
i myself have experienced ... and so ... because ... no, excuse me!
“i must have that purse, i tell you,” shouted denísov, shaking his
“i must also inform you,” said the rhetor, “that our order
“i’m quite worn out by these callers. however, i’ll see her and
improvement. his satire has been less bitter of late, and there was a
impressively, blocking the way to the bedroom and preventing the other
impression. whether dolgorúkov and weyrother, or kutúzov, langeron,
impressions of the recent battle, picturing pleasantly to himself the
impression of those voices and faces and a sense of loneliness merged
impression his news of a victory would create, or recalling the send-off
impression. “but that is a matter of perfect indifference to me,” he
impressionable, smiling young faces (smiling probably at their own
impossible to stop him, she rallied her forces and joined the vicomte in
impossible... oh, how pleasant it was at home!... the knave, double or
impossible not to notice his face. dólokhov was a man of small means
impossible for him to return to his former conception of her, that he
“impossible!” cried prince andrew. “that would be too base.”
impossible!” and suddenly he was seized by a panic of fear for himself
impossible...”
important. what is important are the rights of man, emancipation from
important post in vienna. both the foreign minister and our ambassador
important and unimportant, all of whom he knew, as if they were all
importance of the rite now being performed and even approved of it. he
importance, he returned again, called back the cook and the club
implied that, for certain considerations he could not know of, this was
impetus, and princess mary long remembered the dying creak of that
imperturbable calm she did not begin to speak in front of the valet.
imperials ... or do you wish to make it a hundred?” added he,
impending battle, under a heading which he also read out:
impending action. from privates to general they were not expecting a
impatient the nearer they got to moscow.
impatiently, “i came here not to wrangle with you, but to talk about
impatiently.
impatient and sets to work himself and finds letters from the emperor
impatience, while the princess jumped up and with a gesture of
impassive face?” prince andrew asked himself as he looked. prince
impassive face of oriental type, came out after the commander in chief.
“‘i most ardently desire,’ writes the king of prussia to
“i’m not to blame that the conversation began in the presence of
“i’m not such a fool.... just you try it on.... allez-vous
“i’m not a goose, but they are who cry about trifles,” said
immobile for a few moments. then wrinkles ran over his face like a wave
immensity of the power they constituted.
immense force upon kutúzov’s line of communication with the troops
immediately told him that this man could be useful, and without any
immediately starting to run along the hall and up the warped steps of
“immediately, prince,” said kozlóvski. “dispositions for
immediately broke off. the door of the private room opened and kutúzov
immediately brightened on seeing rostóv. “schön gut morgen! schön
immediately.”
immediately.
“i’m glad, glad, to see you,” he said, looking attentively into
“i’m glad,” answered dólokhov briefly and clearly, as the song
“i’m certain of it; you’ll see.”
i’m alive, that is not my fault, so i must live out my life as best i
“i make bold to ask your excellency to move a little for this
imagining himself before his own officers, insisted on his soldierly
imagine that their children have no secrets from them. “i know i shall
imagined oppressors whose victims he would rescue. of the three
imagined only important possibilities: “if the enemy attacks the right
imagine...”
imagination a new plan of life. on the previous evening at the lodge, he
ilyúshka, the one who danced at count orlóv’s, you remember, in a
ilyá has sent you to ask for strawberries and fresh pineapples.’ we
“i love you all, and have done no harm to anyone; and what have you
    * i love you.
    * “i love you.”
i love so that i would give my life for them, and the others i’d
illumined, and plunge him into the depths of unknown and undefined
“i’ll trust you.”
“i’ll tell you what, my dear fellow,” said prince andrew, who
i’ll teach you to think!” and lifting his stick he swung it and
ill-suited to the family circle of which pierre was almost a member.
“i’ll sing for you a whole evening,” said natásha.
“i’ll show you, i’ll show you! it’s not a secret. and it’s a
i’ll see.” the old prince snorted. “let her marry, it’s all the
“i’ll really call in on the nuns,” he said to the officers who
illness. prince vasíli said something to lorrain in passing and went
“illness or not, he’d better not cwoss my path. i’d kill him!”
ill luck takes us. they say we are going to olmütz, and olmütz is a
“i’ll let two more letters pass, but the third i’ll read,” said
i’ll let her see....”
“i’ll kill you!” he shouted, and seizing the marble top of a table
i’ll just finish dealing, and then ilyúshka will come with his
ill! i was only there a few moments and hardly said a word...”
i’ll go to the general and ask him.” he readjusted himself in the
i’ll flog you all.”
“i’ll flatten you into a pancake!” shouted the angry officer to
i’ll find you another place.”
illegitimate.”
“i’ll drink it! let’s have a bottle of rum!” shouted pierre,
i know you will pray over it. well, pray if you like, but you had better
“i know your outlook,” said the mason, “and the view of life you
“i know your heart,” repeated the prince. “i value your friendship
“i know who has taken it,” repeated rostóv in an unsteady voice,
“i know the will was made, but i also know that it is invalid;
“i know that no one can help if nature does not do her work,” said
“i know people consider me a bad man!” he said. “let them! i
“i know, my dear, kind princess,” said anna mikháylovna, seizing
“i know it and shall prove it,” said rostóv.
“i know,” interrupted bilíbin, “you’re thinking it’s very
“i know, i know,” answered prince vasíli in his monotonous voice.
“i know from reliable sources that the dowager empress is taking a
i know for certain that you won’t marry her.”
“i knew you would be here,” replied pierre. “i will come to supper
“i knew the princess at once,” put in mademoiselle bourienne.
“i knew someone who received that sacrament seven times.”
“i? i? what of me? leave me out of the question. i’m not going to
“i intended to re-form them beyond the village, your excellency,”
“i?... i’m going to petersburg,” answered pierre, in a childlike,
“i imagine that freemasonry is the fraternity and equality of men who
“i hope this will prove the last drop that will make the glass run
“i... hope... for guidance... help... in regeneration,” said pierre,
“i hear you have given orders to harness,” she cried, panting (she
i have written that he should make use of you in proper places and not
“i have the pleasure of addressing count bezúkhov, if i am not
“i have the honor to present myself,” repeated prince andrew rather
“i have the honor to congratulate you. general mack has arrived, quite
“i have seen as much before now, mate!”
“i have said nothing to you, but you have already been talked to. and
i have received what was due from the ryazán estate and will keep it;
“i haven’t been in the room. it must be where you put it.”
“i have not referred to this out of curiosity, my dear sir, but for
“i have no money with me,” he said.
“i have met loving, noble, high-minded men, but i have not yet met
“i have heard of you, my dear sir,” continued the stranger, “and
“i have had a proposition made me concerning you,” he said with an
i have had a letter from my brother, who announces his speedy arrival
“i have four sons in the army but still i don’t fret. it is all
i have done that though badly and to a small extent; but i have done
“i have done my best for him, and i can assure you the education there
“i have come with my mother to see the count, but it seems he is not
“i have come to you with a message and an offer, count,” he
i have a presentiment that for the first time i shall have to show all
“i have already told you, papa,” said his son, “that if you
“i have already refused,” she said hurriedly.
“i have.”
i had to express my own desire...” she had no time to finish. the old
“i had not the pleasure of seeing you,” said prince andrew, coldly
i get reinstated.”
“if you won’t answer, i’ll tell you...” hélène went on. “you
if you still try to defend the infamies and horrors perpetrated by that
“if you, sir, choose to make a buffoon of yourself,” he said
“if you really want it,” said he.
“if you please, your excellency, pétrusha has brought some papers,”
“if you like, your honor!”
“if you have nothing better to do, count (or prince), and if the
if you have firmly resolved to join our brotherhood.” (pierre nodded
“if you had told me sooner, mamma, i would have gone,” she replied
“if you are resolved, i must begin your initiation,” said the rhetor
“if you are refusing for my sake, i am afraid that i...”
if you are in love, marry him!” said the countess, with a laugh of
if we occupy the villages of sokolnitz and kobelnitz, whereby we
“if we live we shall see,” replied bilíbin, his face again becoming
“if we get to vienna i’ll get rid of it there but in these wretched
“if we fought before,” he said, “not letting the french pass, as
if to say that this was no more than she had expected.
“if they had known that you wished it, the entertainment would have
if the whole world had gone crazy.”
if she had not meant it seriously. it makes it as if you were marrying
“if only they would be quick!” thought rostóv, feeling that at last
“if only i knew that anything besides humiliation would come of
if not it is merely a question of settling where the preliminaries of
“if no one fought except on his own conviction, there would be no
“if i were tsar i would never go to war,” said nesvítski, turning
“if it were true that he has been beaten, news would have come.”
“if it were not for my sincere affection and devotion to uncle,”
“if it is true that monsieur denísov has made you a proposal, tell
if it is to last. prince vasíli knew this, and having once realized
“if it does not weigh a hundredweight and won’t break my neck...
if in search of something. on his way to the aunt he bowed to the little
if in search of something. before dinner the old prince, of whom she was
“if i have time,” answered nicholas. “but i promised the
“if i’d been in nikólenka’s place i would have killed even more
if, however, the emperor of russia ratifies that convention, i will
“if he were not,” he said quietly, “you and i would not be
“if he starts a row i’ll go away,” said prince anatole. “i
if he is standing before brünn...”
“if he is one of the ordinary little staff dandies sent to earn a
“if he is better, ask pierre to dine with us. he has been to the
if he intended to say something, but immediately, with affected
“if he” (he meant the enemy) “begins popping at the bridge now,”
“if he could attack us, he would have done so today,” said he.
if complaining of kutúzov.
if but one stage nearer znaim. the offer of a truce gave the only, and
“if buonaparte remains on the throne of france a year longer,” the
“if at least we had some women here; but there’s nothing foh one
if at first the members of the council thought that kutúzov was
if a soldier, he should be dressed in regulation uniform like the
“if anyone comes meddling again,” said he, emitting the words
if all the powers of his soul were concentrated on passing the commander
if about to tell a good story he put down the cards, leaned back in his
“i expect so.”
“i expected help from you and i get none, none from you either!”
i envy him, but you want to make him what i am, without giving him my
i don’t want to have you like our silly ladies. get used to it and
i don’t want him.” (he looked at his blushing daughter.) “are you
“i don’t understand. what’s it all about?”
“i don’t understand!” said prince andrew.
“i don’t understand, mamma—what is his attitude to pierre?”
“i don’t understand it,” replied prince andrew. “women who are
“i don’t understand,” he said, “how it is that the mind of man
i don’t speak of anatole, your youngest. i don’t like him,” she
“i don’t say it’s a plan i approve of,” said the son; “i am
“i don’t myself know ‘to who,’” replied the cornet in a
“i don’t like you to talk like that.”
“i don’t like your mademoiselle bourienne at all,” said prince
“i don’t know. i think if he writes, i will write too,” she said,
“i don’t know, general....”
“i... don’t...” he muttered, holding up two fingers to his cap.
“i don’t even know what is in this paper,” said the younger of
“i don’t at all say that all the plans are good,” said prince
i do not yet know. there will be time enough to think about love when i
“i do not understand,” said pierre, feeling with dismay doubts
“i do not think i have complained of my wife to you, másha, or blamed
“i do not know what you think, father,” whispered the princess.
i do not begin, sire, because we are not on parade and not on the
i doing? aren’t they laughing at me? shan’t i be ashamed to remember
“i’d like to put you on a two days’ march with a knapsack! your
idle, vicious life!” but dared not break the silence.
idlers have failed to beat the germans. since the world began everybody
idleness, but would grow fat and die. the third thing—what else was
idiot!... but what’s the good?...” and he waved his arm.
“i did not... what is it all about?” inquired prince andrew
i did not think he would get it to you so quickly.... well, how are you?
“i did not expect this of you,” said the staff captain seriously and
idea of the means by which our holy order will help you to reach your
i dare say, is braver than any of them. he says nothing about his
i could not have done it myself, i should not have had the courage, but
i consider it my duty to let you know of it. he is said to be very
i confess i understand very little about all these matters of wills and
“i confess i do not understand: perhaps there are diplomatic
“i commanded a squadron,” replied repnín.
“i come from the archduchess’. i heard nothing there.”
“ice pudding, but you won’t get any,” said márya dmítrievna.
ice. crowds of soldiers from the dam began running onto the frozen pond.
ice and into the water and oftenest of all among the crowd that covered
“i can’t tell you how much i have lived through since then. i hardly
i can’t,” replied bolkónski, smiling.
“i can’t make out at all,” said nesvítski.
“i can’t. i’ve sworn not to. i won’t drink and won’t play till
“i can’t help it,” said the prince. “lavater would have said i
“i can tell you more,” continued prince vasíli, seizing her hand,
“i can’t bear the sight of that woman.”
i can’t...”
“i cannot pay it all immediately. will you take an i.o.u.?” he said.
“i cannot inform your majesty at what o’clock the battle began at
i cannot find words to express to you my displeasure. you command only
“i cannot argue about it,” replied prince andrew coldly, but he
i cannot agree with you about pierre, whom i knew as a child. he always
i can do.” and his fancy pictured the battle, its loss, the
“i called once or twice at your house,” said rostóv, reddening.
“i burned this to prove my love for her. i just heated a ruler in the
“i bet on dólokhov!” cried a third. “kurágin, you part our
“i bet fifty imperials”—he spoke french that the englishman might
“i bet a hundred on stevens!” shouted one.
“i bestow it with pleasure,” said napoleon. “and who is that young
“i believe it, i believe it, fwiend, and i share and appwove...”
“i begin ab ovo. ‘the enemy of the human race,’ as you know,
“i am your faithful slave and to you alone i can confess that my
“‘i am wounded and cannot ride and consequently cannot command the
“i am waiting, your majesty,” answered kutúzov, bending forward
“i am very, very grateful to you, mon cher,” or “ma chère”—he
“i am very sorry you did not find me in yesterday. i was fussing about
“i am very sorry, ma’am,” answered the maid.
“i am very glad i did not go to the ambassador’s,” said prince
i am told.”
i am to do; i wanted to consult you seriously.”
“i am speaking ze truce,” replied the hussar with a smile.
“i am speaking sincerely as a friend! consider! where and why are
“i am so sorry for the poor count,” said the visitor. “he is in
i am sorry for that,” he went on.
“i am so glad you’ve come!” said natásha, without answering him.
“i am so enchanted by the brilliancy of the wit and culture of the
“i am ready for everything,” said pierre.
“i am quite of your opinion,” replied nicholas, flaming up, turning
i am overwhelmed with business and it is purely out of charity that
“i am ordered to write a memorandum explaining why we are not
“i am not your ‘dear sir,’ mr. staff officer, and you did not tell
“i am not talking about you,” he said, “i don’t know you and,
“i am not speaking of regicide, i am speaking about ideas.”
“i am not jesting with you; please be silent!” cried bolkónski,
“i am not jesting,” bilíbin went on. “nothing is truer or sadder.
“i am not in the cavalry, colonel, but i am a russian general and if
“i am living at countess rostóva’s,” replied borís, again
“i am going away.”
“i am glad i was able to do you a service, my dear anna
“i am glad i have spoken out fully. perhaps you did not like it? you
“i am fond of you, especially as you are the one live man among our
“i am expecting you, pierre,” said the same voice, but gently and
i am dissatisfied with your younger son? between ourselves” (and her
“i am awaiting orders to join my new regiment, your excellency,”
“i am asking you when you last heard from bolkónski,” repeated
“i am afraid,” said pierre, smiling, and wavering between the
“i am afraid of mixing the figures,” pierre replied; “but if you
i am afraid of him.”
“i am afraid for the baby,” she said to mademoiselle bourienne:
i am.”
“i am.”
i always stick to mother truth. it’s not right!”
“i also wanted to ask you,” continued prince andrew, “if i’m
i alone have any influence with my father, and now and then can save him
i, above all, who am to blame for everything. help me, teach me, and
“i...”
“i...”
hussars, told them to follow him, and trotted downhill in the direction
hussars hastily dismounted, not knowing what they were to do. the men
hussars, flushing and addressing an adjutant who had ridden up, “so
hussars, cossacks, and adjutants, in his camlet coat, as he jolted on
hussars, but still with that naïve air that made it impossible to know
hussars began carefully aligning their horses. silence fell on the whole
hussar revels and life in the fighting line, the other of the pleasures
hussar cornet zherkóv had at one time, in petersburg, belonged to
hussar, “and why are you exciting yourself? do you think the french
hussar and began lifting him.
husband. prince andrew’s eyes were closed, so weary and sleepy did he
husband of a beauty, and in a word—an old woman; and secondly because
husband.
hurrying past them.
hurried off to his company, buttoning up his coat as he ran.
hurriedly up to the unknown general and blocking his way to the door.
hurriedly unclasped his hands, stopped at a table as if tying the
hurriedly: “i will tell you some time how it all happened. but you
hurriedly interrupting bagratión.
“hurrah!”... then the general march, and again “hurrah! hurrah!”
“hurrah!” shouted prince andrew, and, scarcely able to hold up
“hurrah!” rang the enthusiastic voices of the officers.
“hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!” thundered from all sides, one regiment
     hurrah for emperor alexander!”
“hurrah—ah!—ah!” rang a long-drawn shout from our ranks, and
“hur-a-a-a-ah!” came a roar of voices. “let anyone come my way
hungry, ill-shod soldiers, and losing a third of his men as stragglers
hungry, exhausted men would have to detain for days the whole enemy army
hung low over the field of battle on the horizon. it was growing
hungarian?” said the commander with an austere gibe.
hundred yards after that before he saw to his left, across the whole
hundred rubles was left of that money, so that this seven of hearts
hundred rubles he had a long column of figures scored against him,
hum with voices. on all sides soldiers were running to and fro, throwing
humor and dissatisfied with the affair, and so did not exert themselves
humming infantry as by a frame.
humility.
humiliation of arrogant austria and that in a week’s time he might,
“humbug! nonsense! humbug, humbug, humbug!” cried prince bolkónski,
human skull with its cavities and teeth. after reading the first words
hugging and kissing him. another and yet another creature of the same
how you look at things! send two men? and who then would give us the
how we went to the sparrow hills with madame jacquot?... it’s such an
“how was it a gun was abandoned?” asked bagratión, frowning, not so
“how understand me!” cried her father angrily. “prince vasíli
how to escape?”
how to behave with her. the evening before, in the first happy moment of
how to arrange it. what do you think?”
“how thoroughly like him that is!” he said to princess mary, who had
how they had been made much of in russia, poland, and abroad. they spoke
how the russians had been overwhelmed by flying austrians and had had to
“how sweet she is—she will be a weal beauty!” said denísov.
     how sweet, as fancies wander free,
how stupid you men all are not to have married her! excuse me for saying
“how strange it is,” said véra, selecting a moment when all were
“how’s this, colonel?” he shouted as he approached. “i told you
“how’s it you’re not drunk today?” said nesvítski when the
“how she loves me!” thought princess mary. “how happy i am now,
how quickly! now i know that not because of her alone, nor of myself
“how plainly all these young people wear their hearts on their
how one day soon after his marriage he came out of the bedroom into his
“how often have i asked you not to take my things?” she said. “you
“how much longer? how much longer? oh, these insufferable streets,
how much anxiety one has had to go through that we might rejoice in
“how many miles?”
“how lovely!” said everyone who saw her; and the vicomte lifted his
how long his unconsciousness lasted. suddenly he again felt that he was
“how it will be there i don’t know, but all will be well!” thought
“how is the count? can i see him?” asked pierre, awkwardly as usual,
how is that?” said different voices.
“how is that?...” began prince andrew, who had for long been waiting
“how is it,” she began, as usual in french, settling down briskly
“how is it i am not moving? i have fallen, i am killed!” rostóv
how have you spent it? in riotous orgies and debauchery, receiving
“how handsome the old man still was only a year ago!” remarked the
“how funny you are!” he said, bending down to her and blushing still
“however, this is not at all interesting. let us have dinner, and then
however they might change the setting and adornment of that face, it
“however, there will hardly be an engagement today,” said bagratión
“however, i think general kutúzov has come out,” said prince
“however, if you command it, your majesty,” said kutúzov, lifting
however, for he will leave us again to take part in this unhappy war
however, at nine o’clock the prince, in his velvet coat with a sable
“how easy it is, how little effort it needs, to do so much good,”
how d’ye do, old fellow?” he said, turning to an old man who was
how do you judge of it?” he added, addressing nicholas, who when he
“how do you expect him to answer you all at once?” said prince
“how do you do, my dear? i wish you many happy returns of your name
“how do you do, cousin?” said pierre. “you don’t recognize
how did it begin? i traveled from moscow with prince vasíli. then there
“how dare you take it?” he shouted.
“how can the emperor be undecided?” thought rostóv, but then even
“how can one talk or think of such trifles?” thought pierre.
how can i, an insignificant mortal, show his omnipotence, his infinity,
“how can he talk like that?” thought pierre. he considered his
how bright and glorious was the setting sun! with what soft glitter the
“how am i to understand you, mon père?” said the princess, growing
how am i to renounce forever these vile fancies, so as peacefully to
“how am i?” dólokhov answered coldly. “i am as you see.”
“how about the horses?” he asked, without looking at pierre.
“how about my son borís, prince?” said she, hurrying after him into
house, you know, and danced with the children. be sure to invite him, my
house with prince bagratión and weyrother. weyrother was the austrian
house was dominated by the same feeling that princess mary experienced
house was brilliant with lights shining through its lofty windows. the
house. though he expected that the story of his escapade would be
houses from his door. it seemed to him the horses were not moving at
house, now and then opening her door when someone passed and watching
house lay behind a newly dug pond filled with water to the brink and
household. and there in fact was sónya lying face downward on nurse’s
household, a common anxiety, a softening of the heart, and a
house for your wife is ready. princess mary will take her there and
house and now managed all his affairs, stepped softly into the room.
hour. suddenly the broad muscles and lines of the count’s face began
hours’ sleep before morning and felt cheerful, bold, and resolute,
hour alone with the dying man, passed out, slightly acknowledging their
hostilities are ended, we can shake one another’s hand.... the
hostess look toward the door, and now and then glance at one another,
hospitals. the one and the other may serve as a pastime. but what’s
hospitals could no longer accommodate all the sick and wounded, yet the
hospitality, did the honors to the prince.
hospital at ostrolenka till i recover. in regard to which i humbly
horse you’ll thank me for.”
horse with his spurs, and giving it the rein leaped lightly over. only
horse—that i’ll warrant,” said shinshín, patting him on the
horses were already galloping. rostóv heard the thud of their hoofs
horse still struggled.
horses near the window, prince andrew felt that something important and
horses in horsecloths. then came a cart, and behind that walked an old,
horses and the infantry collecting wood.
horses and ilyá iványch. i don’t think ilyá drives anyone except
horse, rode up to the porch, swung his leg over the saddle with a supple
horse of a batman or groom of some important personage and began to
horse for which he had paid seven hundred rubbles was not worth half
horse a little in front of his marshals. he gazed silently at the hills
     * hors d’oeuvres.
horror-struck. but when she saw that pierre’s sacrilegious words
horror and fear. all were still. pierre took his hands from his eyes.
hoping to find him alone. when he came in and saw an hussar of the line
hope you will change your opinions, my dear monsieur pierre.”
hoped to lead he still lived the old life, only in new surroundings.
hoped. she prayed for her brother as living and was always awaiting news
“h-o-o-w are you standing? where’s your leg? your leg?” shouted
hoofs and wheels. amid the general rumble, the groans and voices of the
hoofs and the jingling of showy cavalry in blue, red, and green braided
hoofs, and apparently ready to jump over the railings had his rider let
honor, was terrible.
honor to choose me to be their marshal; it was all i could do to get
honor of the french infantry, so necessary to the honor of our nation.
honor? knowing him to be an only son, to challenge him and shoot so
honored guests sat, everyone seemed to be in high spirits and under the
honorable, of bezúkhov? and fédya, with his noble spirit, loved him
honorable, count,” or, “were he as clever as you,” and so on,
honorable, and brave, but if he robs his fellows there is no honor in
hommes massacrés et l’armée de nos alliés détruite, et vous
home. should he go to headquarters next day and challenge that affected
home,” said the valet.
home reading a book and trying to fathom the significance of the square,
home now for the first time after eighteen months again brightened his
hollows and snow-covered pools of water.
hollow and were firing at our men. prince bagratión bowed his head as a
hollabrünn and have pursued ever since to this place. the position we
“hold your tongue, pétya, what a goose you are!”
holding up the folds of her dress, and the smile shone still more
holding up his saber, his spurs jingling, he ran up the steps of the
holding up a threatening finger. “he is such a worthy and excellent
holding the bottle was lifted higher and higher and trembled with the
holding high her fifty-year-old head with its gray curls, she stood
“ho, ho!” said the old man, casting his eyes on her rounded figure.
“ho! ho! ho! ha! ha! ha! ha! ouh! ouh!” came peals of such healthy
hoarsely. prince andrew winced and, clutching his head, went out and sat
“hm.... if you wish to kill him, to kill him outright, you can see
“hm! hm!” muttered the prince, sitting down.
“hm... hm...” muttered the old prince to himself, finishing what he
“hm... hm...!” growled pierre, frowning without looking at her, and
“hm!—his excellency is a puppy.... i got him his appointment in the
hitting men and that afterwards someone had shouted “cavalry!” and
hitherto puckered brow became smooth as a sign of pleasure, and with a
his youngest boy, had all settled down in the drawing room and were
his wont, as if intentionally contrasting the briskness of his manners
his wife’s room. she was lying dead, in the same position he had seen
his wife said—met for supper at prince vasíli’s. all these friends
his wife, and by an anonymous letter he had received that morning, which
his whole soul what the stranger said. whether he accepted the wise
his weapons clean and polished to the utmost, and every horse groomed
his wealth, and being in the habit of lording it over these people, he
his weak figure. “number two!” he squeaked. “fire, medvédev!”
his voice. “she is living in moscow and you are here. remember,
his verses, bowed to bagratión. everyone rose, feeling that dinner
his utmost to look as small as possible. he looked at the count, who
his usual jokes, but noticing that what he was saying redounded to
his typically southern french face during the whole time of the reading,
his toulon, or his bridge of arcola. how it would come about he did not
historical accounts of battles, involuntarily pictured to himself the
his time there.
his time. but he is growing old, and though not exactly cruel he has too
his thin, worn, sallow face was covered with deep wrinkles, which always
his temple, where an ismail bullet had pierced his skull, and the empty
his superiors by his promptitude and accuracy and had arranged his money
his suite, with their cossacks who were talking loudly together, prince
his study and showed them his choice collection of turkish pipes. from
his speech, which he used in extreme cases when special persuasion was
his son only smiled.
his son by both hands, he cried, “now i’ve got you, so take the
his son and seizing the little princess’ arm as if she would have run
his skill?” he concluded.
his side had been attempting a reconciliation), and he also went up to
his shrill, harsh voice. “the road is not swept for the princess my
his shoulders. “women, my dear fellow; women!”
his shoulders.
his ship is sailing, but on the day of battle—heaven knows how and
his servant handed him a half-cut novel, in the form of letters, by
his scanty gray hairs over his bald patch, also asked them to dinner.
his saber, the soldiers all continued to run, talking, firing into the
his saber. only ten paces divided them. dólokhov lowered his head to
his routine, retired as usual after dinner. the little princess was in
his rooms upstairs.
his room.
his rising. “this unfortunate fete at the ambassador’s deprives me
his riding whip.
his reputation fighting them.”
his relations with old friends, all his plans for his future, were
his private room and, calling his adjutant, asked for some papers
his present state.
his portrait, “definitely demanded that he should be called.”
his pocketbook.
his plate seemed to him not quite clean, and pointing to a spot he
his plate round and moving his wineglasses about with as much decision
his plate, and proposed a toast, “to the health of the hero of our
his pistol, and then he felt with surprise that of all the men he knew
his passion for the emperor had cooled somewhat in moscow. but still, as
his own way, gave an order. no one said anything definite, but the rumor
his own superiority. it was as if he said to them: “i know you, i know
his own pleasure, chose to chat with lieutenant drubetskóy. more than
his own house. the minister of war came up and congratulated him on the
his own helplessness. at sight of this smile pierre felt an unexpected
his own had taken possession of his brain and at that moment afforded
his old friend and the possessor of such enormous wealth, to the caprice
his nose.
his noble soul peacefully to leave this...”
his neighbors’ glasses, not neglecting his own. the countess in turn,
his musket walked away.
his muscular legs as if sailing along, stretching himself to his full
his mouth very clearly revealed something unexpectedly coarse and
his mouth, he turned with his glass to pierre.
his mouth awry, prepared to shout. the regiment fluttered like a bird
his mind that they would be friends.
his majesty the emperor derogates from the principle of our alliance...
his majesty; but we think the present delay is depriving the splendid
his lower jaw.
his lips without uttering a sound. he wished to say, “yes, a vile,
his lips in his sleep and breathing evenly.
his life. he walked about in front of the line and at every step pulled
his legs. pressing against both sides of the window, he adjusted himself
his legs almost gave way, it seemed to him that he was tired out. he
his last parting from his father and his wife; he remembered the days
his kindly, simple, and modest expression. anna pávlovna turned toward
his in the diplomatic service.
his instinct urged him on. before the officer finished his sentence
his impulsive nature, does get into mischief (a boy can’t help it), he
his imaginary sword, but smiling at the remembrance of that pleasant,
his husbandry.
his huge figure, with arms hanging down and with a puckered, though
his horse. zherkóv and the staff officer bent over their saddles and
his horse with a convoy officer’s saddle.
his horse keep pace with the company.
his horse indolently and carelessly. rostóv recalled their quarrel of
his highness the archduke ferdinand has honored me, i imagine that the
his head he let it droop and again closed his eye.
his head, and with inimical politeness lurking in the corners of his
his head and again assuming his former tone of a dull, unreasoning, but
his head.
his head.
his having been picked up on the battlefield by the people of the
his hands to the blaze, and turned away his face.
his handsome face. natásha, very still, peered out from her ambush,
his hand prince andrew came up to his comrade, the aide-de-camp on duty,
his hand over the thin grizzled strands of hair combed back across his
his handkerchief, and again: ‘sergéy kuzmích, from all sides,’...
his hand and at the head of a regiment—he fell as a hero, worthy of
his hand.
his gray hair.
his grave, even rather gloomy, look was instantaneously replaced by
his grandfather, who was his godfather, trembling and afraid of dropping
his glittering black eyes at rostóv.
his future depended—whether he would follow the same old road, or that
his fieldglass. a little behind them nesvítski, who had been sent to
his feverishness increased and he grew delirious. visions of his father,
his father who had brought it from the siege of ochákov. all these
his father’s peculiarities, and partly because he needed solitude,
his father’s part of the house. entering the drawing room, where the
his father dismissed the abbé and said to the young man, “now go
his father and his fatherland. to the great regret of myself and of the
his fat chest uncovered, stepping unevenly and timidly in one slippered
his face was terrible and piteous to see, especially from its helpless
his face suddenly softened and tears came into his eyes. with his left
his face shone with self-satisfaction and pleasure.
his face, gave him a peculiar vivacity and shiftiness of expression.
his face, began to talk—as one who has long had something on his mind
his eyes seemed larger than usual when he glanced round and noticed
his eyes he heard in front of him, where the enemy was, the long-drawn
his eyes. “can they be french?” he looked at the approaching
his eyes at the sight.
his eyes and thought he would never open them again. suddenly he was
his eye as a miller wakes up when the soporific drone of the mill wheel
his excitement. “don’t you understand that either we are officers
his example, and the loud shouting continued for a long time. when the
his efforts had not been in vain. the dinner, both the lenten and the
his easy life in moscow, entered the room.
his dressing gown and smiled slightly, as if expressing respectful
his door, which creaked slightly when opened.
his despair was all the greater from feeling that his own weakness was
his daughter that morning. princess mary well knew this painstaking
his daughter, princess hélène, passed between the chairs, lightly
his company? if you were cleverer and more agreeable, i should prefer
his companion. the latter, a fresh, rosy officer of the guards,
his collar as if escaping, was sitting almost asleep in a low chair,
“his children are all illegitimate. i think pierre also is
his career. moreover, he could see by her manners that she was one of
his captain.
his camp,” said he. “what does that mean? either he is retreating,
his breast and a serene expression on his flat face. he spoke in that
his breast. among them stood a man whose white shirt was stained with
his boots. you can see everything from there; let’s go there,
his being alone and despondent! a strange face may seem unpleasant or
his beautiful daughter hélène.
his attention wandered from the book and the square and he formed in
his arm, began a long-drawn-out soldiers’ song, commencing with the
his arm.
his acquaintances, to overtake his regiment which was already in poland.
his acquaintance and joyfully welcomed the rich newcomer, the
hippolyte spluttered again, and amid his laughter said, “and you were
hippolyte “—so dull—. it has been a delightful evening, has it
hippolyte laughed as if ashamed of laughing.
hippolyte is at least a quiet fool, but anatole is an active one. that
hippolyte in the carriage, “your little princess is very nice, very
hippolyte interrupted her with the words: “le roi de prusse...” and
hippolyte gazing round with importance at the others, “without
hippolyte burst out laughing.
hippolyte, and began looking through a lorgnette at his elevated legs.
hints began to make the countess anxious and she glanced uneasily at
hindmost of these men wearing similar shakos was a russian hussar. he
him ‘your majesty,’ but who, to his chagrin, got no title from
him. you know the story of the handkerchief? it is delightful!”
him with her usual smile.
him. “what is this? they’re like sheep! just like sheep! out of the
him what consolation i can.”
him up and lent him money. pierre recalled how hélène had smilingly
him too, just opposite gúryev’s house... old gúryev.... oh, but
him to hear something more, nodded and turned to him with a cheerful
him to go back as it was too dangerous to remain where they were.
him to die. others are being born and there are plenty of them as it is.
him to despatch part of the army abroad and to create a new condition
him to deliver.
him to come up; prince bagratión reined in his horse and recognizing
him to come. there were other guests and the countess talked little to
him, though, between you and me, he always seemed to me a poor sort
him. the pain in his arm became more and more intense. irresistible
him.” the mere thought of her father’s look filled her with terror.
him that there would probably be an engagement that day or the next, and
him. that’s a thing i hate! everything is possible.”
him surrounded by children whom, by the count’s generosity, he was
him so when i see him!”
him several riders with white plumes in their hats. in a moment everyone
him several questions about his journey and seemed greatly interested in
himself. what angered him was that the coming of these visitors revived
himself, was shouting to kutúzov that if he did not ride away at once
himself up to such an extent that it seemed he could not have sustained
himself up, slightly arching his back. it was plain that the commander
himself undertook his daughter’s education, and to develop these two
himself to the count, who was looking inquiringly at him.
himself to bagratión. bonaparte’s adjutant had not yet reached
himself, prince bagratión sent zherkóv to tell the general in command
himself on his seat.
himself one with his horse, rode past the emperor with a frowning but
himself on a sofa with his face to the wall. pierre hid his face, from
himself.... not a word! about some denísov or other, though he himself,
himself into a chair, gazing at those in the room as if asking, “why
himself in the palace at potsdam.
himself. i am called in to help sort the letters and take those meant
himself, he rose, threw back his head, and with resolute steps went
himself, he kept in touch with the circle which confers success and
himself had vanished. he was filled with happiness at his nearness to
himself fall into a trap moreau set him, and from which he did not know
himself, but only desires the good of mankind. and what have they
himself an insignificant atom in it) would go through fire and water,
himself, and this fresh opportunity for action gave him new energy
himself after his recent loneliness and freedom from cares so beset and
himself?
himself.
himself.
him. rostóv was particularly in need of money now that the troops,
him. “remember this, prince andrew, if they kill you it will hurt me,
him, push him, do anything but kiss him—a thing everybody did. but
him. prince vasíli’s two valets were busy dressing him, and he looked
him pleasure. the enemy’s guns were in his fancy not guns but pipes
him out of the booth at grunth. he was shouting in a gasping voice:
him, or what was said of him; he was only glad that people were standing
him, or perhaps for that very reason, the prince, though he continued
him or her to a little old lady, wearing large bows of ribbon in her
him. on the day of prince vasíli’s arrival, prince bolkónski was
him... olga, go and see whether uncle’s beef tea is ready—it is
him not in the least abashed.
him my whole staff and all that belongs to it, advising him if there is
him. “more, please: more! what’s he saying?”
him merged in rostóv’s mind into a single feeling of terror and pity
him into the sitting room, where they began talking. they hardly gave
him if not to join in at least to listen to what he was saying. but the
him,” he thought, and again he felt something terrible and monstrous
him. he stroked her hair and then patted her awkwardly on the back of
him, he’s a scoundrel. go on! go on!”
him he is a fool, that’s all!”
him, he does not know russian.”
him?” he asked.
him, handing him different articles of clothing. “what of sweden? how
him full directions which he had written down for his own guidance as to
him, from his weary, bored expression to his quiet, measured step,
him, from his daughter to his serfs, the prince was sharp and invariably
him for those words, bullets flew hissing across the regiment and across
him feel confused by her smiles and her own confusion when meeting him.
him except the young princesses.... they are still young....” she bent
him everyone began to stir: steps were audible and whispers, among which
him do what he pleases,’ she used to say of me. one day i asked her if
him disputing in whispers and one of them insisting that he should be
him die feeling that he is rendering unhappy those who...”
him, carried the infant round the battered tin font and handed him over
him by the arm, “i believe that intervention will be stronger than
him but to the whole regiment—all of us—you’re to blame all round.
him, but still that happy result always remained in the future.
him; but most of all, he felt joyful that the moment had come when he
him, bonaparte had made in his campaigns and even in politics. his
him be here....”
him a taper. he lit it and, distracted by observing those around him,
him as a man, but what can one do?”
him and would not have others do so.”
him and, with a christian mildness that expressed forgiveness of his
him. “and why should she marry?” he thought. “to be unhappy for
him and she wished and tried to please him as much as possible.
him, and only as he kissed her hand on taking leave said unexpectedly
him and he was at once blindfolded again.
him and hélène. “well, what of it, if you all know it?” thought
him and everything he could say had long been known to him, that he was
him and did not stop but rode on and on, continually mistaking bushes
him a look of stern inquiry, as though what pierre had just said was
him all the way. he thought angrily of the pleasure he would have at
him.”
him.
him.
him.
him.
him.
him!”
hills, she took a special fancy to mademoiselle bourienne, spent whole
hill opposite, with the french moving about on it, opened out before
hill one after the other. their colonel, karl bogdánich schubert, came
hill.
high time!”
highness,” and pointing to the grand duke who with his high shoulders
“highly satisfied, your excellency!”
highly honored guest, took possession of him as it were, without waiting
high—i always said....”
highest spheres.
highest point. “it’s in charge of the queer fellow we saw without
highest degree just the very qualities pierre lacked, and which might
higher ground it was clearing, but nothing could be seen of what was
high, but the last round fell in the midst of a group of hussars and
hid her face still deeper in the bed. natásha wept, sitting on the
hidden by dense mist. having given orders in the commander in chief’s
“hey, cossack, my horse!” he said. “now, then, you there! get out
he would slap in the face before the emperor. suddenly a distant shout
he would say a lot of pleasant things, ask you to dinner” (“that
he would rush through the whole suite of rooms without drawing breath,
he would into that foggy distance: now something gleamed gray, now there
he would have to march with no road into unknown parts of the bohemian
he would have done at that moment had hélène not fled from the room.
he would have been mentioned among the officers found on the field of
he would give an opinion at the war council which would be the only one
he would expand his chest, raise his head, and rejoice at his good
he would certainly be taken prisoner. kutúzov remained in the same
he worked went step by step toward his goal. he was free, he had nothing
he wore the air of a man little concerned in what the two ladies were
he wondered as he got up: and at that moment he felt that something
he woke up and looked round for a while with a startled expression,
he woke up...
he wished to take a decision, but felt with dismay that in this matter
he wished to explain to dolgorúkov a plan of attack he had himself
he will hit me in the head, or elbow, or knee. can’t i go away from
“he will get up in twenty minutes. let us go across to mary’s
he went to his bed, drew a purse from under the clean pillow, and sent
he went straight up to prince vasíli.
he went over his vices in his mind, not knowing to which of them to give
he went on talking in this way in french, uttering only those words in
he went nowhere and spent whole days in reading thomas à kempis, whose
he went forward uneasily over the rough field with the awkward gait of
he was to wear at the meetings, and finally of the third, a pair of
he was touched, but also a gleam of irony on his face.
he was told that he would now see the lesser light. the bandage was
he was told in russian, german, and czech by the crowd of fugitives who
he was thinking that prince andrew was unhappy, had gone astray, did not
he was singing in passionate tones, gazing with his sparkling
he was sent. this was the brilliant charge of the horse guards that
he was sent away. hippolyte is her brother... prince vasíli is her
he was riding was one he had bought from a cossack during the campaign,
he was riding almost along the front line. a handful of men came
he was proud to be at the head of such a nation and would endeavor to be
he was pleased at the gratitude he received, but felt abashed at
he was joyfully planning this new life, when prince vasíli suddenly
he was in contact with the springs that set in motion the enormous
he was flushed and bathed in perspiration, though the room was not hot.
he was evidently so busy that he even forgot to be polite to the
he was asleep in his corner and woke him up. rousing himself, pierre
he was afraid of finding in her a rival for count bezúkhov’s fortune,
he was admitted to the emperor, and an hour later he rode off with
“he wants to see a battle,” said zherkóv to bolkónski, pointing
he waited a moment to see whether the cornet would answer, but he turned
he vouchsafe its revelation to us through his divine spirit.
he unhooked his saber. he came out from behind the chairs, clasped his
he understood his commander’s wish.
he turned to kozlóvski with urgent questions.
he turned round. nesvítski’s handsome face looked out of the little
he turned away.
he tried to say more, but faltered.
he touched his horse and having called milorádovich, the commander of
he took the pistol in his hand and began asking about the working of the
he took the lighted pipe that was offered to him, gripped it in his
he took the dispatch which was addressed to him and began to read it
he told her she was still the same crybaby as ever. princess mary had
he threw the bottle to the englishman, who caught it neatly. dólokhov
he thought, stopping for a moment with a sinking heart, and then
he thought out his plans beforehand he could not have been so natural
he (though pierre had not mentioned bonaparte), “but bonaparte when
he talked to pierre), the old man was sitting on a large leather-covered
“he’s very young to come to meddle with us.”
he sung a second, a third below the high note. “ah, god! how fine! did
he suddenly cried. “even without a bet, there! tell them to bring me a
he suddenly blushed crimson, and it was plain that he had made a great
he stretched out his hand to take hold of the purse. rostóv let go of
he stopped short on his heels, stood so a second, stamped on the spot
he stopped and remained silent for a long time.
he still had all the letters in his hand. opening them mechanically he
he spread a map on the table. “all eventualities have been foreseen.
he spoke with such self-confidence that his hearers could not be sure
he spoke so rapidly that he did not finish half his words, but his son
(he smiled ironically.) “but even if he also took up a position in
hesitation and uncertainty among his conductors. he heard those around
hesitating voice. “i thank you. i agree with all you have said. but
he signed with a flourish and suddenly turning to his son began to
he sighed.
he shrugged his shoulders and spread out his hands. pierre wished to
he shrugged his shoulders and raised his hand to the kerchief, as if
he shrugged his shoulders. a footman conducted borís down one flight of
he shouted, “and then i shall reserve the right to state my opinion
“he shouldn’t have taken so many men,” said the officer of the
he shaved and scented himself with the care and elegance which had
he sent for pierre and said to him: “my dear fellow, if you are going
he seized his son by the hand with small bony fingers, shook it, looked
he seemed to swell with satisfaction. he had hardly finished speaking
“he’s dead—why carry him?” said another.
“he’s coming!” shouted the signaler at that moment.
he scattered the burning tobacco, smashed the pipe, and threw it away.
he saw which way the wind was blowing, and his low opinion changed into
he saw turrets and a church. what need to hurry? what was he now to say
he saw french cannon and french troops on the pratzen heights just where
he sat under fire. but despite himself, on his face too that same
he sat down by his wife, his elbows on his knees and his hands ruffling
he sat down beside hippolyte and wrinkling his forehead began talking
“he’s arrived!”
“he’s a low fellow, say what you will,” remarked prince hippolyte.
he said something more, but rostóv did not wait to hear it and rode
he said. “perhaps you are right for yourself,” he added after
he said no more, but expressed his resignation to cruel fate by a
he said.
he sad at leaving his wife?—perhaps both, but evidently he did not
her. “you know, catiche, that we—you three sisters, mámontov, and
her work as if to testify that the interest and fascination of the story
her with perfect sincerity, and with the naïve and firm conviction
her with a grimace that distorted his handsome face, kissed anna
her. why do you say all this to me?”
her white teeth. she met prince vasíli with that playful manner often
her voice sounded so serious and so sad that the chirping of the birds
her up, hugged her, and, smiling through her tears, began comforting
her tone was now querulous and her lip drawn up, giving her not a
her—thou or you?”
her thin lips grew white, though her eyes did not change, and her voice
her tenderly and attentively, said severely:
her temples. princess mary, supporting her sister-in-law, still looked
her sympathy for pierre, but by involuntary intonations and a half smile
her sufferings or with their relief. the pangs began again and mary
her sleeves and puffing heavily.
her sister-in-law’s room. prince andrew in a traveling coat without
her sister dropped the portfolio. anna mikháylovna, stooping, quickly
herself wish to die, that his end was not only touching but edifying. as
herself should she glance round. anna mikháylovna, with a meek,
herself in here for? but i will give her a piece of my mind. the time
herself in a white satin dressing gown embroidered with silver and with
herself! glad to throw her father over! and she knew i should notice
herself disinterestedly at the head of an alliance having for its object
“herself,” came the answer in a rough voice, and márya dmítrievna
her seducer when she loved him?” he thought. “god could not have put
her?” said the old prince angrily. “what an idea! i’m ready for it
her, rostóv thought, but just now there were so many other pleasures
her—please don’t! it is too painful for her!”
her plainly as she is, or else you will make a cruel and irrevocable
her path.
her own on the subject.
her over his spectacles.
hero less on earth.”
heroism!”
hero himself with his paltry vanity and joy in victory appear,
her neck as soon as she overtook her in the sitting room.
her neck.
her mother, quite excited.
her mother and burst into such a loud, ringing fit of laughter that even
her long hair came down....” here he could contain himself no
her little nephew as best she could. mademoiselle bourienne, too, seemed
her lip descended. she brought her face close to her sister-in-law’s
her inflamed and perspiring cheeks, her charming rosy mouth with its
her in five minutes before and, despite the fixed eyes and the pallor of
her husband looked at her as if surprised to notice that someone besides
her. how often when considering her character i have told myself that
her heart. happy the man who wins her! with her the least worldly of men
her head toward the darkness of the open doorway.
her head and continued in a whisper: “has he performed his final duty,
her handsome eldest daughter were in the drawing room with the visitors
her handkerchief too. pierre was kissed, and he kissed the beautiful
her guests, first the vicomte and then the abbé, as peculiarly choice
her glittering eyes, filled with childlike fear and excitement, rested
her friend, the princess’ eyes—large, deep and luminous (it seemed
her friend as if she did not consider her worthy to hear what she meant
her forehead. his fine eyes lit up with a thoughtful, kindly, and
her foot—which everyone appreciated in view of her size and habitual
her foot into the other. sónya, when he came in, was twirling round and
her favorite sonata bore her into a most intimately poetic world and
her father was tidy. she put down the geometry book and eagerly broke
“her father is very rich and stingy. he lives in the country. he is
her fate was decided and happily decided. but what her father had said
her face suddenly flushed with reckless and joyous resolution. she half
her face became sad.
her face, and then immediately he saw beside her dólokhov’s handsome,
her eyes were smiling expectantly, her downy lip rose and remained
her eyes off him, and smiling and holding her breath. he gave her a
her eyes became serious. at that moment she was oblivious of her
her eyes, and then quickly went to his place and sat down. “sit down,
here. where is it?” he asked, turning to lavrúshka.
here the conversation seemed interesting and he stood waiting for an
“here’s to the health of lovely women, peterkin—and their
“here’s something for you to report,” said zherkóv. “see if i
here’s another admirer of that powder-monkey emperor of yours,” he
here, run away, bury myself somewhere?” passed through his mind. but
here prince hippolyte spluttered and burst out laughing long before his
here prince hippolyte paused, evidently collecting his ideas with
he repeated, accentuating the u: “i think, however, now that he lays
here on friday.”
he remembered the expression dólokhov’s face assumed in his moments
(he remembered that in french there is some peculiar way of addressing a
he remembered his honeymoon and blushed at the recollection.
here i’ve brought the prince’s wedding candles to light before his
“here it is!” thought he, seizing the staff of the standard and
“here it is! the decisive moment has arrived. my turn has come,”
“here is some sort of key to the mysteries that your héloïse has
“here is our dear orthodox russian army,” thought bolkónski,
here is one from his highness the archduke ferdinand and here are
here is now settled, and i ought to have been off long ago. here is
here, is he not? please announce me.”
“here, in that house,” answered the adjutant.
“here he is... our own... kólya, * dear fellow... how he has
“here he is at last!” shouted rostóv. “and berg too! oh, you
he reflected, “there is no riding round it now. i must look for the
here!” exclaimed different voices; and the heavy breathing of the
he reeled and sank on the snow.
here? don’t you see the skirmishers are retreating? lead the squadron
here,” came the voice of an hussar, past whom rostóv was riding in
“here at least we shall have the benefit of your company all to
her companions’ not having the least conception that it could be
her brother shook his head incredulously.
her because you must, and that wouldn’t do at all.”
her beauty and her remarkable skill in appearing silently dignified in
her badge as maid of honor. the youthful little princess bolkónskaya,
her as a distant beauty far removed from him, as he had seen her every
her and for himself, and in a nervously emotional and softened mood he
her and about to crush her was some terrible misfortune, the worst
her already,” he said, evidently trying to entertain a visitor with
he raised both arms as if carefully lifting some invisible but precious
her.
her.
her.
he quickly entered the small reception room with its still-unplastered
he put on the air of one who finds it impossible to reply to such
he pulled off the quilt and shook it. the purse was not there.
he pointed with a smile to a turreted nunnery, and his eyes narrowed and
he pointed to the french guns, the limbers of which were being detached
he paused, his gaze still on pierre, and moved aside on the sofa by way
he paused and sighed, evidently trying to calm himself.
he paused, and just as he was about to say something more, another ball
he paused a little while.
he patted her on the shoulder and himself closed the door after her.
he passed it. pierre began to feel a sense of uneasiness, and the
     he ought to be firing at the enemy.
he opened his eyes and looked up. the black canopy of night hung less
he only gave an order to cease firing and re-form, so as to give room
he noticed everything...”
he never could appreciate it. no, mon cousin,” she added with a sigh,
he needs money for food; the man said an officer had once given him a
he need only have bent his head a little to have touched them. he was
he must think that i, too, am afraid of him—and in fact i am afraid of
he must retreat as quickly as possible behind the hollow in the rear,
“he must first receive the trowel,” whispered one of the brothers.
he moved as if to rise. the generals bowed and retired. it was past
he might... not only might but should, have gone up to the sovereign. it
he might be, did not expect. he was so used to submitting to prince
he met nesvítski, with whom he shared a room, and the wag zherkóv;
he meant to do, and abandoning herself to him followed his lead hardly
he marked the figures in his clear, bold hand.
he made up his mind that prince andrew had been killed, and though he
he made himself when going into battle, and he was more amiable to the
help, would inform her.
helplessly spread out, stood with his broad chest directly facing
helplessly on the sofa.
helplessly and he made a fruitless effort to pull it forward. whether he
“help him up. sit down, dear fellow, sit down! spread out the cloak,
“help comes from god alone,” he said, “but such measure of help as
help being aware of it, just as we cannot renew an illusion we have once
he looked with disdain at the endless confused mass of detachments,
he looked very grim he said nothing to anyone.
he looked straight at prince andrew and suddenly unwrinkled his
he looked intently and inquiringly into his friend’s eyes, evidently
he listened and heard the sound of approaching horses, and voices
“he lets one win the singles and collahs it as soon as one doubles it;
hélène turned to pierre with the beautiful bright smile that she gave
hélène, then she turned to pierre with the same words of welcome
hélène still sat talking just as before.
hélène’s presence (as a lover should be), but had not yet proposed
hélène smiled, with a look implying that she did not admit the
hélène’s hand several times. after a while they were left alone
hélène’s face became terrible, she shrieked and sprang aside. his
hélène. “separate! that’s a thing to frighten me with!”
hélène sat silently side by side almost at the bottom of the table, a
hélène raised her voice and became more and more excited, “a man
hélène nor she at him. but she was just as terribly close to him. he
“hélène!” he said aloud and paused.
hélène, and that thought both alarmed him, as if some obligation were
hélène.”
he left the room and went to the waiting room where alpátych stood with
he leaned his whole massive body across the table.
he leaned his elbows on the table with his pen in his hand and,
held the hand of his betrothed in silence, looking at her beautiful
held out his cheek.
held it till evening and have gone in to dinner with it) and drew his
held it below her waist.
held. all the commanders of columns were summoned to the commander in
he lay down on the sofa meaning to fall asleep and forget all that
he lay down on the leather sofa in front of a round table, put his big
he. “laughing at us old fellows!”
he laughed in his usual dry, cold, unpleasant way, with his lips only
he lacked that strength of will which he had known in himself and really
“he knows of course what this loss means to me. he can’t want my
he knew this at that moment as surely as if he had been standing at the
he knew no one, and despite his smart guardsman’s uniform, all these
he kept nodding to show that he understood, anatole went on translating
he jumped up at the sound of her light step.
“he is very much altered now,” said anna mikháylovna. “well, as
he is uncle’s aide-de-camp, a most brilliant position. he is so
he is so frank and has so much heart. he is so pure and poetic that
“he is one of the most remarkable, but to me most unpleasant of
“he is not to be apprehended by reason, but by life,” said the
“he is no more....”
“he is leaving me here, god knows why, when he might have had
“he is just the same as ever,” replied anna mikháylovna,
“he is dozing,” said anna mikháylovna, observing that one of the
he is bóry’s godfather—and allow him something for his maintenance,
he is better acquainted than anyone else, does not listen to others but
“he is a very, very nice, honest, and pleasant fellow,” answered
“he is a nervous, bilious subject,” said larrey, “and will not
he is an aide-de-camp of kutúzov’s and will be here tonight.”
“he is a man in a gray overcoat, very anxious that i should call
“he is a great tactician!” said the prince to his son, pointing to
heiress in the same way. all this might, he thought, turn out very well
he involuntarily remembered how dólokhov, who had fully recovered his
he indicated a place beside him to his daughter-in-law. a footman moved
he implored rostóv to go on and prepare her.
he immediately dispatched adjutant general wintzingerode, who was in
he imagined men such as he had himself been a fortnight ago, and he
he imagined himself as an enormously tall, powerful man who was throwing
height without the smallest effort, his ease contrasting with the heavy
height on which the kiev regiment was stationed, in the hollow where the
he himself was pining for the dear princess, and how she showed him the
“he higher iss dan i in rank,” said the german colonel of the
he heard some french spoken he at once began speaking to the officers,
he hated her and was forever sundered from her. despite denísov’s
“he has weported himself sick, he’s to be stwuck off the list
“he has perspired,” said prince andrew.
“he has made wills enough!” quietly remarked the princess. “but he
“he has forty thousand men at most,” replied weyrother, with the
“he has been set down. he died,” replied someone.
he half rose, meaning to go round, but the aunt handed him the snuffbox,
he had too long been thinking of so painfully to the exclusion of all
he had to do, not with fools, but with men who could teach him something
he had the hofs-kriegs-wurst-schnapps-rath on his hands. it would have
he had said absent-mindedly: “yes, she’s good looking,” he had
he had ridden about two miles and had passed the last of the russian
he had ready in his mind, of all he knew and had seen. but the emperor
he had pierre at hand in moscow and procured for him an appointment as
he had often before, during the last six weeks, remained alone with her,
he had not thought about it until that moment. the officers’ laughter
he had not finished the last verse before the young people began to
he had met that evening.
he had left petersburg, and wrote enthusiastic letters to his
he had left. all the others let him go, and he ran to her. when they
he had lain there some time, he was told to get up, and a white leather
he had just remembered his recent encounter with the doctor’s wife and
he had evidently not slept that night. he looked about distractedly and
he had but recently left their regiment, rode up to the colonel.
he had been ordered to look for the commander in chief, he could not,
he had been beside the gun, he had heard the voices of the officers
“he had another stroke about half an hour ago. courage, my
he had already promised prince anatole to come to his gathering;
he got his wound. this pleased rostóv and he began talking about it,
he, going to the door and looking into the nursery.
he glanced round at her. she gave him a passionately angry glance, and
he glanced at his cousin and the young lady visitor; and they were both
he finished and, getting up, embraced and kissed pierre, who, with tears
he. “fine, very fine! you have done up your hair in this new way for
he filled the girls’ albums with verses and music, and having at last
he felt that this did not forward matters at all. he felt that these
he felt that at a single word from that man all this vast mass (and he
he felt himself to be. at the right beat of the music he looked sideways
he feels sure he will distinguish himself. he was glancing at everyone
“he exists, but to understand him is hard,” the mason began again,
he entered the drawing room with his usual alert step, glancing rapidly
he enlivened the whole party. the wax candles burned brightly, the
he embraced his daughter, and then again pierre, and kissed him with his
he embraced her. she screamed and fell unconscious on his shoulder.
he drew up his chair, and continued to explain.
he drew back and a real tear appeared in his eye.
he dressed for dinner. the old prince always dressed in old-fashioned
he discussed estate affairs every day with his chief steward. but
he disarmed his hearers.
“he did not shut me up, he said i was telling an untruth.”
he did not see him and had no opportunity of seeing him, he often spoke
he did not see, hear, or understand anything clearly. only now and
he did not reply.
he did not regain consciousness till late in the day, when with other
he did not look at them: he looked only at what was going on in front
he did not finish. just then there was a whistle in the air; nearer and
he did not finish his sentence, but his tone showed how highly he
he did not find prince andrew in olmütz that day, but the appearance of
(he did not even dare to dream of that), but simply to die before his
he did not do it he would grieve and disappoint many people, but if he
he described the whole campaign with a fearless self-censure and
he could see puffs of musketry smoke that seemed to chase one another
he could not stop short for the sake of one man’s life.”
he could not look calmly at the standards of the passing battalions.
he could not finish, and ran out of the room.
“he could not do that. the people only gave him power that he might
he could from a frenchman into the wood. besides, to tell everything as
he continued to pace the room, looking gloomily at denísov and the
he consoled himself. “and besides, what have i done to bring it about?
he commanded was in an almost hopeless position. the spy reported that
he clutched at his head. “who is going to get me the flowers? dmítri!
he closed his eyes, and immediately a sound of cannonading, of musketry
“he chose his friends badly,” interposed anna mikháylovna.
he checked himself, fearing to seem naïve, yet he felt an irresistible
he chanced to meet dólokhov’s handsome insolent eyes, pierre felt
he cautiously released the shoulder she leaned on, looked into her face,
he caught a momentary glimpse between their heads and backs of the dying
he can’t help plowing and mowing; if he didn’t, he would go to the
he came to the point at once, treating her ceremoniously.
he called the cossack with his horse, told him to put away the knapsack
   he brings foemen to their knees,... etc.
he bowed his head and scraped first with one foot and then with the
he began the rescript again and again, but as soon as he uttered
he began pacing the room. the screaming ceased, and a few more seconds
heavy convoys (whose movements were concealed from the french) advance
“heavens! what a virulent attack!” replied the prince, not in the
“heaven only knows what the people here may imagine,” muttered
“heaven only knows, my dear! these rich grandees are so selfish.
“heaven knows what a fright might do.”
heated horses, exchanging remarks and smiling, had stopped behind the
“he asked you, and vasíli dmítrich * is also going.”
he asked, “whose company?” but he really meant, “are you
he, as if bragging of having been frightened.
heart! you are a madame de genlis and nothing more” (this nickname,
heartrending scene.... it was a convoy of conscripts enrolled from our
heart. “it has begun! here it is, dreadful but enjoyable!” was what
heart in the presence of the unfathomable did not lessen but increased.
hearing with pleasure the whistle of bullets evidently aimed at him.
hearing these words her face changed and something brightened in her
hearing that they wished to see the count, said his excellency was worse
hearing that cry and seeing to whom it was addressed, nesvítski and the
hearing or understanding her own words, what she had told hundreds of
hearing how ill he is.”
hearers—who like himself had often heard stories of attacks and had
heard, your honor, that a minister is coming to visit your honor.”
heard this sónya blushed so that tears came into her eyes and, unable
heard the words as he might have heard the buzzing of a fly. not only
heard the quick rustle of the countess’ dress. she came up to them.
heard them, and we shall all do our duty. but before a battle, there is
heard that the war was being discussed had turned from his partner with
heard respectfully congratulating the dying man on having received the
heard on every side.
heard musket fire quite close in front of him and behind our troops,
heard distinctly.
heard curses on bonaparte, “the enemy of mankind.” militiamen and
heard before, others simply enjoyed hearing how the master talked, while
heard a rustle behind him and a shadow appeared under the curtain of
heard, and out of the foggy darkness the figure of a sergeant of hussars
heard, and much farther to the right beyond the dragoons, the officer of
heard, and again something in his face twitched—“that is just why
heard.”
“he always was rather harsh; and now i should think he’s getting
he always thought only of whatever he was engaged on.
healthy body, and all the affection and care of his family. “and why
health was drunk, pierre, lost in thought, did not rise or lift his
“health to your ex... len... len... lency!” and again all became
health of our sovereign, the emperor!” he roared, “hurrah!” and
“health and happiness to her whose name day we are keeping and to her
health?”
health?”
head (the pains had just left her). strands of her black hair lay round
head sadly, pointing them out to the austrian general with an expression
headquarters was still under the spell of the day’s council, at which
headquarters in the morning and had started the whole movement that
headquarters. but on the afternoon of that day, this activity reached
headquarters, and having ascended a dark staircase, they entered a small
head, pulled it off, and showed the blood congealed on his hair.
headlong to the horse. “walk him up and down, my dear fellow,” he
headlong speed with no time to consider what this movement might lead
headlong after anna mikháylovna and, dashing at her, flung herself on
head, laughing with an officer who had sat down beside him. a third was
head in perplexity—perhaps because the banner really interested him,
he added that prince vasíli was also there. when tíkhon came to her
he added: “i need good officers myself, need them myself!”
he added: “but beware, dear brother, that these gloves do not deck
he added as if speaking to himself.
head cook, about asparagus, fresh cucumbers, strawberries, veal, and
head, but the instant he turned to prince andrew the firm, intelligent
head. as he rode up to the camp he thought how he would impress borís
head and lips indicating very little hope for the patient.
head and at the little arms and legs which showed under the blanket. he
head and an army of fifteen thousand men has been ordered to blow up
head.
having turned with words of comfort to her companion, realized that
having thanked anna pávlovna for her charming soiree, the guests began
having stuck an amber mouthpiece far into his mouth, was inhaling the
having something to eat. they hastily turned round to him asking if he
having said this she went up to the doctor.
having said this, napoleon rode on to meet marshal lannes, who, hat in
having said this laughed. everyone turned toward him.
having ridden round the whole line from right flank to left, prince
having ridden beyond the village, continually meeting and overtaking
having ridden ahead, had pulled up his horse near the bridge, with a
having rested after yesterday’s march, were sitting, clean and neatly
having read thus far, princess mary sighed and glanced into the mirror
having reached the left flank, instead of going to the front where the
having passed uvárov’s cavalry he clearly heard the sound of cannon
having passed the guards and traversed an empty space, rostóv, to avoid
having mounted drew himself up very straight and tall and rode to the
having lost a single man. the second squadron that had been in the front
having lifted her head and let her arms droop lifelessly, as ballet
having left that soldier who was evidently drunk, rostóv stopped the
having led him about ten paces, willarski stopped.
having jerked out these last words as soldiers do and waved his arms
having glanced through the dispatch he laid it on the table and looked
having given them to the rosy natásha, who beamed with the pleasure
having given several more orders, he was about to go to his “little
having given orders to his company, sent a soldier to find a dressing
having galloped safely through the french, he reached a field behind
having entered the courtyard of a large house where the lodge had its
having disentangled his leg, he rose. “where, on which side, was now
having descended the hill at a trot, he no longer saw either our own or
having convinced himself that he was asleep, took up a paper and in
having cleared the way denísov stopped at the end of the bridge.
having by a great effort got away to the left from that flood of men,
having become entangled in the saddle. where our men were, and where the
“have you told them to bring the horse?” asked telyánin, getting up
“have you never thought of marrying your prodigal son anatole?” she
“have you?” he said. “well, how did it go?”
“have you a complaint to make?” kutúzov asked with a slight frown.
   have we not bagratión?
have virtuous aims,” said pierre, feeling ashamed of the inadequacy
have two footmen behind her carriage, and very big ones. that was her
have to prove to them what he had not merely convinced himself of, but
have to go in and ask the princesses; and from there go on to the
have to call in the french, so that birds of a feather may fight
have the courier horses. it was plain that he was lying and only wanted
have the carriage to drive to town:
have stayed longer.”
have something to tell you. here, here!” and she led him into the
have something to eat.”
“have some brought from the reserve,” said napoleon, and having gone
have seen how he said it! i know he did not mean to say it, but it came
have said. and he was still more angry at having omitted to say it. he
have received very little, prince vasíli nothing, and it is monsieur
have received another letter about the preussisch-eylau battle
have of hope and strength merely weighs you down and torments you with
have obliged me to give this refusal.”
have nothing to complain of.”
have, my dear! i tasted it. the thousand rubles i paid for tarás were
have looked at it. take it. well, now go. go.”
have liked to sympathize with what pierre was saying, but could not.
have killed so many that there’d have been a heap of them.”
have just this moment received by special messenger very joyful
have it, young man, i’m going.”
have heard the sobs. it seems as though mankind has forgotten the
have gone through,” and she sympathetically turned up her eyes.
have frightened you—sit down and tell me all the news.”
have done your best to increase his mental sufferings.”
have done the same!...” thought princess mary.
have done for us.”
have dared to say so, knew it and blushed scarlet every time dólokhov
have certainly acquired a taste for war, and it is just as well for me;
have been difficult to stop that crowd, it was even impossible not to
have been as good as weyrother’s, but for the disadvantage that
have a room of your own,” and she took the inkstand from nicholas.
have always, thank god, been my children’s friend and had their full
hast thou denied?” he suddenly asked with exulting austerity and
has to be cunning and cruel.”
“has the snow been shoveled back?”
haste, trying to escape notice, closed the door, and began to read the
hastening her steps. “you young ladies should not know anything about
has so many relatives in moscow! so you are borís? of course. well, now
has retained in full force.”
has received a letter and is expecting a visit from prince vasíli. in
has proposed to sónya!”
“has prince vasíli aged much?” asked the countess. “i have not
has picked up an ax: “we are used to it, but you, sir, will blister
“hasn’t been in since the evening. must have been losing,”
has married his first cousin. and we are only second cousins, you know.
has his stand, and there’s zakhár himself and still the same horse!
“has he taken his medicine?”
has come down to us from the remotest ages, even from the first man—a
has blundered looks at an examiner.
has beaten the germans. they beat no one—except one another. he made
“has anything happened?” she asked. “i am so terrified.”
“has anything come from andrew?” she asked.
harnessed and packed the wagons and tied on the loads. the adjutants and
“hardly,” said bagratión. “i saw them this evening on that
hardly had prince andrew started than he stopped him.
hardly had borís gone than sónya, flushed, in tears, and muttering
hardly able to restrain her tears and maintain the artificial smile
hard.... for ages, from our forefather adam to our own day, we labor to
harder from behind.
happy world of his own. she fancied a child, her own—such as she had
happy smile, ambling lightly up to the count’s niece. “i have come,
happy and smiling. véra was playing chess with shinshín in the drawing
happiness. the old princess sighed sadly as she offered some wine to the
happiness possible, and that is just what you want to deprive him of.
happiness or peace of mind. can anything in the world make her or me
happiness), feeling the eager bustle around him, and hearing the fitful
happiness and of children, but her strongest, most deeply hidden longing
happiest, merriest times for him and the whole family. nicholas brought
happen to them when they were free, but he insisted, though reluctantly,
happen!” she said, looking at herself in the glass. “how shall i
happening in front of him. nesvítski with an angry face, red and unlike
happened to you in moscow was a misfortune.”—“i regret it very
happened to touch. mademoiselle bourienne stood near them pressing her
happened, he was said to be insanely jealous and subject like his
    * “hang these russians!”
hanging his head, meekly followed her.
hanging down (she had handed her reticule to the countess), and only her
hanged,” said prince andrew with a smile. “so i am serving because
handwriting. on receiving it, he ran on tiptoe to his study in alarm and
hand with it and knew he must not do so. having advanced six paces and
hand, was clearing manure from the cowhouse, looked out, and his face
hand to his ear toward weyrother, with the air of a man absorbed in
hand to her heart, with a beatific smile and obviously equally ready to
hand them to the emperor after my death. now here is a lombard bond
hand that was free, and turning sideways felt the pulse and reflected
hands which show the time, so the result of all the complicated human
hands were symmetrically placed on the green silk quilt, the palms
hands. then, sighing, he added: “my son’s fate is in your hands.
hands that are unclean.” while the grand master said these last words
handsome young officer entering his room. pierre paused. he had left
handsome open face of the man who might perhaps be her husband absorbed
handsome, happy young face, he experienced a feeling of tenderness
handsome and a terrible scapegrace. that is all i have been able to find
hands, looked attentively into prince vasíli’s eyes evidently
hands. “just fancy, he didn’t let me win a single cahd, not one
hands high, shied, throwing back its ears; but the pockmarked guardsman
hand she went up to her husband and kissed him on the forehead.
hands, he looked more closely at the ring, with its skull—a masonic
hands asking for their blessing, and that he kissed véra, natásha, and
hands and occasionally ran his eyes over the score against him. he had
hands.”
hands....”
hands.
hand, rode up smiling to the emperor to congratulate him on the victory.
handleless cup before a table on which tea and a cold supper were laid
hand, lay prince andrew bolkónski bleeding profusely and unconsciously
handkerchief to his wounded cheek and pointing to the fleeing soldiers.
handkerchiefs to their eyes, and just in front of them their eldest
handkerchief and rushed from the room.
handkerchief, and pipe.
hand in passing and draw it downwards, or absent-mindedly hold out his
hand. “how did you get here?” said he, turning to zherkóv.
hand he held carefully back, because he wished to support his right
hand he drew bagratión toward him, and with his right, on which he wore
handful of scoundrels. it will soon be over, it can’t be that, it
handed him, smiled at dólokhov’s words, and with a sinking heart,
hand. and there,” he pointed to a sutler’s tent, “they crowd in
hand and said, “come.” pierre went with her to the bed on which the
halted, the austrian argued that not he, but the higher command, was to
halted. prince andrew was behind, among the immense number forming the
hall, where denísov was sitting on the same chair by the clavichord
“hallo, gwíska—my pipe!” came vasíli denísov’s husky voice.
hall all sat waiting, silently and alert. in the outlying serfs’
half whisper, “everyone knows count cyril’s reputation.... he has
halfway through supper prince andrew leaned his elbows on the table and,
halfway. fine orders!” was being repeated on different sides.
half-closed eyes he looked at rostóv, bowed slightly and wearily, and
half-closed eyes gave still more persuasiveness to his words. the staff
half an hour later, the rhetor returned to inform the seeker of the
ha!” laughed prince bolkónski, and anatole laughed still louder.
hairs painfully in the knot. then he drew his face down, kissed him, and
hair above his broad forehead which reminded one of a lion, and the deep
ha, ha, ha! mary!”
had uttered them.
“had there been no bagratión, it would have been necessary to
had then said.
had the ear of the company.
had the air of one who has suddenly lost faith in the whole human race.
had the air of a man happily performing one of the most solemn duties of
had sunk, her lip was drawn up, and her eyes drawn down.
had stopped beside the dead men, ran to catch up his line and, falling
had slept badly that night, those around him reported. the cause of this
had sent in good time to moscow for a doctor and were expecting him at
had seemed as extraordinary to her as if there had never existed the
had ridden up to him in a violent passion, shouting: “arnauts!”
had revealed to him. a week after his arrival, the young polish count,
had read thus far, he crumpled the letter up and threw it away. it was
had read, and listened to what was passing in the nursery. suddenly he
had reached braunau at the same time, was in splendid condition. there
had produced a good epigram, a fresh one that would be repeated. his
had prevailed. she drew her brother’s attention to the maid who was
had played a little air with variations on the harp, she joined the
had persisted in his request to kutúzov, arrived at grunth and reported
had perished by his own magnanimity, and that there were particular
had on the spásski hill which might have been serious for her in her
had only met once before for a short time at his wedding, were in
“hadn’t i better ride over, your excellency?” asked nesvítski.
had not yet entered either the military or civil service, as he had only
had not yet come home when rostóv rode back early in the morning from
had not yet begun. not wishing to agree to dolgorúkov’s demand to
had not worn for a long time, he went into bilíbin’s study fresh,
had not told all and that there was something in his feelings for the
had not only held the field but had repulsed the french. though the
had not left prince vasíli’s and felt with terror that in people’s
had not known it i should not have addressed you. your view of life is a
had no time. he was afraid of falling behind the hussars, so much afraid
had not finished saying what was necessary, thudded into the ground near
had not exasperated the vicomte, and had convinced herself that it was
had not been time to move. the emperor, surrounded by his suite
had no connection with the matter in hand. his haggard face was yellow.
had never been to blame, might be held responsible at headquarters
had left paris and how he had liked that city. anatole answered the
had left her kindly and tear-worn face and it now expressed only anxiety
had killed five frenchmen, a third had loaded five cannon singlehanded.
had instantly noticed her brother’s condition. but, though she noticed
had he repented of his unbelief? was he now there? there in the realms
had heard that a rumor of his duel had reached the emperor and that it
had happened. what had happened? nothing. he had merely understood that
had happened to him, but could not do so. such a storm of feelings,
had happened during that half-hour to the troops entrusted to him, and
had had to retreat and had made their withdrawal in perfect order. the
had had in anna pávlovna’s drawing room. pierre removed his feet from
had grown so dark that one could not distinguish the uniforms ten paces
had foreseen. prince andrew, out of breath with his rapid ride, spoke
had followed him like an eagle, three steps at a time. having received
had followed, and only the heavens promised peace. toward morning
had fixed on that number because forty-three was the sum of his and
had first seen the enemy and fired the first shot, and that the corner
had first learned to say “pear” and then “granny,” that this son
had fallen the previous day—the day of the battle. reviewing his
had evidently been drinking.
had entered. the most solemn mystery in the world continued its course.
had entered and left the town with their bands playing, and by the grand
had endured to gain her end.
had driven the old prince to town returned bringing papers and letters
had done in petersburg at anna schérer’s reception.
had crossed that line and not only was there nothing terrible, but
had conquered, settled down in an armchair, inviting prince vasíli to
had come into pierre’s room after the funeral. with drooping eyes
had come from the left flank where their regiment was stationed, with
had changed greatly during that period. in the expression of his face,
had broken up the french troops.
had been struck on the teeth, or what the ham had to do with it.
had been spilled on the carpet. they were met by a deacon with a censer
had been sitting with the old aunt rose hurriedly and overtook prince
had been repulsed, employing this military term to describe what had
had been put in position?”
had been playing cards with the majority of the more distinguished and
had been killed or not and whether the cannon had been captured or
had been killed at the beginning of the engagement and within an hour
had been insulted through his daughter. the insult was the more pointed
had been increased by a half. and so pierre was delighted with his visit
had been got ready for him, glancing now and then at the newcomer, who,
had been doing, as though it were all an old-time story, and he listened
had been decided to advance immediately and give battle to bonaparte.
had been carried out and in what state were the serfs whom god had
had been added to mademoiselle bourienne’s toilet which rendered her
had become more intimate when prince andrew was in vienna with kutúzov.
had a splendid march. you know, of course, that his imperial highness
had apparently been running), “and i did so wish to have another talk
had any news. on their familiar faces he read agitation and alarm.
had always seemed to him that he really was very kind and intelligent.
had always imagined battles to himself), nor could he help to fire the
had also convinced the sovereign emperors of.
had accumulated at the sight of all that was being done in the army.
habitual to him. his face took on the stupid artificial smile (which
habitual, offering his puffy cheek, but bagratión kissed him on the
habit of walking, had been swept: the marks of the broom were still
habit of ridiculing the masonic beliefs—“i am afraid i am very far
gut morgen!” * he said winking with a merry smile, evidently pleased
guns smashed, and no supports at all.”
guns on the hillock.
guns. on the contrary, the energetic action of that battery led the
gunner with his shako knocked awry, pulling one end of a mop while
gun carriage. a cossack who accompanied him had handed him a knapsack
gun, a horse), from the sight of all these things a fantastic world of
guidance. the universal experience of ages, showing that children do
guests were and exchanging glances with natásha, who was sitting
guests were all conversing with one another. “the razumóvskis... it
guests returned to the drawing room and to the count’s study.
guests. natásha, who sat opposite, was looking at borís as girls of
guests joined in. everyone laughed, not at márya dmítrievna’s answer
guest. “poor girl, she’s devilish ugly!” thought anatole.
guest of honor and hero of the austrian campaign, prince bagratión, to
guess what he wanted; she pointed first to pierre, then to some drink,
guessing rostóv’s thought.
guards with the rank of cornet. he received, however, no appointment
guards, wearing a cocked hat with its peaks front and back, with his
guards, that they not only did not wish to, but simply could not, be
guards. prince andrew came up to him and took his hand.
guards passed rostóv before he heard them shout, “hurrah!” and
guards. here is my hand on it. are you satisfied?”
guards charged, followed the line of reserves, going far round the place
guards?” asked napoleon.
guard and line regiments, russian and austrian. among them were grooms
guard.
grown-up young people: véra beside berg, and pierre beside borís; and
grown furious, now at borís, now at bolkónski. “yes, many stories!
growing louder and more frequent. evidently our guns had begun to reply.
growing impatient, and stamped her foot, ready to cry at his not coming
growing excited. “what about your son, your sister, and your
growing ever stronger and fuller and merging into a deafening roar.
grow imperceptibly from the cradle to manhood, did not exist for the
group where the vicomte was still talking, and again pretended to
group of men with yellow shakos, dark-green jackets braided with cord,
ground ten paces apart to mark the barrier. it was thawing and misty; at
ground like cliffs and slopes. anywhere, on any side, one might
ground, eager to rejoin its fellows, he watched his squadron draw
ground, artillery and troops in blue uniform were seen. these were the
groans, which seemed to melt into one with the darkness of the night.
groaning aloud and swinging his arm which had just been hurt, while
grimace. “i have long wanted to ask you, andrew, why you have changed
grieving at the misfortunes of our common cause, or we are merely
grieved him and yet he was pleased.
grew weary waiting to be relieved. prince andrew halted to have a look
grew still louder and merged into a general roar that only an army
grew still kinder. the younger sisters also became affectionate to him,
greeting was riding quickly. when the soldiers of the regiment in front
greediness that he wanted it, but simply from a conscientious desire for
great sin. how can one judge father? but even if one might, what feeling
greatness, the unimportance of life which no one could understand, and
greatness of soul?” said the little princess, smiling and drawing her
greatness....”
great many officers like him were always coming there and that everybody
great man! let us drink to his health and to the certain defeat of the
great haste and in the greatest disorder. the road was so obstructed
great favor to ask of you.”
greater zeal than his duty as a commander. thanks to the strictness and
greater reasons.”
greater part of the enemy’s opened out from this battery. just facing
great deal. of the two soups he chose turtle with savory patties and
great deal from the deceased,” said prince vasíli to him, handing him
great and talking eagerly. as soon as they saw pierre and his companion
great; all he could hear was: “ahahah!” and “rrrr!”
gray overcoats, wounds, the smoke of gunpowder, the sounds of firing,
grayish color.
gray everyday dress. now please, do it for my sake. katie,” she said
gravity!”
grave, moment i did not tell you the whole truth. i think there is no
grateful look, but was still expectant and looking for someone. the old
grateful for the benefits conferred on them. everywhere were receptions,
grapeshot.”
grant rewards, and he was himself often surprised at the rapidity of his
grant.” nor did he say to himself: “pierre is a rich man, i must
“‘grant leave to retire to his country seat to an old man who is
granted.
grand! look at the smoke, the smoke!” exclaimed the artillerymen,
grandfather, wore it in all his wars.” (she still did not take out
grandfather called him). the baby prince nicholas lived with his wet
grandee of catherine’s time who now lay dying in moscow. the young man
“gracious heavens! the young count!” he cried, recognizing his
graceful pose under a portrait of catherine, leaning his elbow on a
graceful and muscular arms and neck. by the grace of her movements,
grabern. on the left our troops were close to a copse, in which smoked
gown, he went to the couch on which he slept.
government officials to his table, had unexpectedly selected michael
got up and said something to the ladies. anna mikháylovna stepped
“gott, wie naiv!” * said he angrily, after he had gone a few steps.
go to him himself, and tell him what ought to be done in a tone of
“go, tit, thresh a bit!” said the wag.
“go, tit! thresh a bit!”
got into bed, all kept awake a long time that night.
go through your performance.”
go there anyhow and i have already spoken to him about you. we shall
“go!” the quivering voice repeated. and prince vasíli had to go
go? that way is nearer.”
got back to their horses. two were misdirected and the shot went too
goot to come to ze front and see dat zis position iss no goot? i don’t
“go on, you must drink it all,” said anatole, giving pierre the last
“go on, go on!” said the major.
“go on! go on! give it them!” he mentally exclaimed at these sounds,
good thing really.”
good stories about her, while none the less all without exception
“good!” said the rhetor quickly, apparently satisfied with
good part.
good old days. denísov, flushed after the mazurka and mopping himself
“good night, lise,” said he, rising and courteously kissing her hand
good news, though schmidt’s death is a heavy price to pay for the
good news? there has been an encounter with mortier? a victory? it was
“good news!... go on!” he shouted to the driver, and they galloped
goodness, to give us as sovereign! to say nothing of my brothers, this
good-natured, sincere, and animated levity. “but you see... another
good luck.”
good horse, bedouin, and sitting as though falling backwards in the
“good health...”
     * “good god, what simplicity!”
good gifts? are you content with yourself and with your life?”
“good-by, my dear,” said she to the countess who saw her to the
“good-by, my dear fellow,” said túshin. “dear soul! good-by, my
good-by!”
“good-by.”
good as to look at the map and listen.” langeron lifted his eyes with
good and noble in you will be lost. it will all be wasted on trifles.
“gone to bed,” replied the voice of demyán the house steward, who
“gone to bed?” asked the prince.
“gone? that’s all right!” said he; and looking angrily at the
gone, pierre did not go to bed or order horses but paced up and down
gone out of the conservatory she followed and called borís to her.
“go, my dear fellow, and see whether the third division has passed the
golítsyn and he has refused. be the kindhearted man you always were,”
golden.”) he cast happy, sidelong glances at his son from under his
gold-embroidered velvet bag. her pretty little upper lip, on which a
go into that. but consider the position in which you are placing her and
going toward the door without raising his eyes. denísov paused, thought
going to the cottage he occupied with denísov.
going. the emperor was wounded, the battle lost. it was impossible to
going straight on through the conservatory, neither seeing nor hearing
going on in front. whether all the enemy forces were, as we supposed,
going on, but strain his attention as he would he could not understand
“going?” and he went on writing.
“go in, annette, or you will catch cold,” said the little princess,
“go!” he repeated, amazed at himself and glad to see the look of
“go! go! killed in battle, where the best of russian men and
goes up to auersperg and says: ‘prince, you are being deceived, here
god, without whose care not a hair of man’s head can fall?
god,” said pierre, regretfully and with an effort, feeling it
god,” pierre went round the table and saw a large open box filled
“god is merciful, doctors are never needed,” she said.
“god is merciful, birdie.”
“god is merciful....”
“god has nothing to do with it! well, go on,” he continued,
     * god has given it to me, let him who touches it beware!
godfather,” she added, as if she attached no importance at all to the
“go, dear,” said princess mary.
“god be with you, general!” said the emperor.
god be with him,” thought he, relishing his own goodness of heart,
“god be thanked that you are in time,” said she to one of the
god!” and without noticing that he was singing, to strengthen the si
go and tell lise.”
“go and choose denísov. he is a real dancer, a wonder!” he said.
“go and apologize, your excellency. yes, go!”
“go across to our hosts: they invited you,” added borís.
go.
go.
glorious task for which he was chosen. i shall await your most gracious
gloomy gravity and glancing round at his comrades, “there is an order
gloom, but a dark sea swelling and gradually subsiding after a storm.
glittering teeth and sparkling eyes. she told of an accident they had
glide across that lofty infinite sky! how was it i did not see that
gleamed.
glass, smiled, and walked toward the other door. natásha was about to
glass. she went on reading:
glass, “or i won’t let you go!”
glass of vodka and the dinner; and the staff officer with the signet
glass. letting her arms fall helplessly, she sat with downcast eyes and
glass.
glancing up at him from under her brows, smiling, and almost crying from
glancing into the drawing room, where he saw véra and his mother with
glancing for support at an officer of the suite who turned away
glancing at prince vasíli and at her father with her beautiful eyes.
glances without coloring, but even the old countess and natásha blushed
glanced up at her through tears of laughter, and again hid her face.
glanced at berg with a smile.
glanced askance at her husband’s face, and her own assumed the timid,
glanced angrily at berg, then, meeting his eyes, hid his face behind the
glance became more animated as his conclusions became more hopeless.
glance at all those in the room and noticing the count’s confessor
glad, very glad indeed, that my brother has distinguished himself so.
“glad to do our best, your ex’len-lency!” came a confused shout
“glad to do our best!” shouted the soldiers.
giving the messenger a significant look.
giving him full liberty to remain with him during the battle or to join
giving him a mild expression, rode up to bagratión and welcomed him as
gives the singles and snatches the doubles!”
given to raise recruits, ten men in every thousand for the regular army,
given to blow it up. otherwise we should long ago have been in the
given receptions) now hardly let a day go by without having an evening
give no opinion on such an important government order, and berg laughed
given him by the commander in chief and his fellow officers, prince
“give me time to collect my wits, father,” said he, with a smile
“give me that letter,” said kutúzov turning to prince andrew.
give me satisfaction...”
“give me a biscuit, you devil!”
“give him a seat,” said túshin. “lay a cloak for him to sit on,
gist of the matter lay in that.
girl, you and your sisters are not heiresses! if you don’t believe me,
girl would be decided that evening. the visitors were seated at supper.
girls’ voices came from the adjoining room. the door was opened a
girls and avoiding their eyes.
girlish adoration that her smile could not for a single instant impose
girl,” he sometimes said to himself “she never makes a mistake,
gilt frame, new to him, containing the genealogical tree of the princes
giddy even on a staircase,” exclaimed several voices.
“get well soon, lads!” he continued, turning to the soldiers.
getting up and speaking in a muffled and guttural voice.
get there and fire the bridge or will the french get within grapeshot
get ready to dance in the large hall, and the sound of the feet and the
“get onto the ice, over the ice! go on! turn! don’t you hear? go
get married. what about you? that’s what i want to know.”
“get in,” said kutúzov, and noticing that bolkónski still delayed,
gesture. anna pávlovna meditated.
germans’ muddling! what stupid devils!”
germans, and everyone was convinced that a dangerous muddle had been
germans.
german—i congratulate him! i can’t make out what the commander at
german accent, “for the reasson zat ze emperor knows zat. he
“gently, gently! can’t you do it more gently?” said the emperor
gentleness and affection. he could not refuse the post, or rather the
“gentlemen, who wishes to bet with me? i’ll do the same thing!”
“gentlemen, the dispositions for tomorrow—or rather for today, for
‘gentlemen,’ says one of them, ‘you know the thabor bridge is
“gentlemen,” said dólokhov after he had dealt for some time.
gentlemen of the diplomatic corps. with prince hippolyte kurágin,
gentlemen, messieurs les maréchaux, * murat, lannes, and belliard,
gentlemen, it is already time for me to go,” replied prince andrew
“gentlemen, i thank you all; all arms have behaved heroically:
“gentlemen, i’ll do anything. no one shall hear a word from me,”
gentlemen changed his position on seeing borís. the one who was writing
gentleman,” said the postmaster, entering the room followed by another
gentleman of the bedchamber, which at that time conferred the status of
gentleman—evidently not sharing borís’ conception of the advantages
gentle look of her large luminous eyes, very beautiful at that moment,
gentle childlike smile, and hélène smiled too.
genoa and lucca laying their petitions before monsieur buonaparte, and
general who, watch in hand, was saying it was time they started as all
general who signed that capitulation had no right to do so, and that no
general who had succeeded schmidt. in the passage little kozlóvski was
general who had served blamelessly for twenty-two years, flushed by a
general were talking in low voices and kutúzov smiled slightly as
generals were saying.
general’s three-cornered hat, and held it, pulling at the plume,
generals in the crowded hut, feeling embarrassed as he always was by the
generals in full parade uniforms, with their thin or thick waists drawn
general schmidt, who was killed in the action. his horse had been
generals. but one could not tell from that significant look whether he
generals and statesmen of the day. the old prince seemed convinced not
generals.
general roar.
general—of whom austria has so many—and to lay down all this heavy
general movement; that something was constantly expected of him, that if
generally the stronger! i know very well that count nicholas is too
generally, prince andrew had, as he had had in petersburg society, two
generally happens to the narrators of cavalry attacks had not happened
generally do describe it, that is, as they would like it to have been,
“general kutúzov,” said bolkónski, speaking french and stressing
general, in russian, speaking with the french intonation he affected
“general, i must obey orders, but i am not bound to endure...”
general grumbled at his wife when she asked how his leg was. “oh, the
general expanded his chest and rode, frowning, beside him to the
general engagement in which he was taking part, more than that, he was
general conversation.
general conclusion which he had arrived at from his interview with
general commotion. some eight or nine young men were crowding anxiously
‘general bonaparte.’”
general attention, and anna pávlovna felt that the novelty she had
general.”
general!”
genealogical tree, shook his head, laughing as a man laughs who looks at
gaze drooped his eyes sadly and again took to twirling his snuffbox.
gazed at his delicate fingers which rapidly twirled by its corners
gazed at bolkónski silently with wide-open eyes.
gavríl to pay a sleigh driver, his kissing sónya on the sly—he now
gave zest to his pleasures. he spent the greater part of his time away
gave us time to retreat. the retirement of the center to the other side
gave no answer, she left the room.
gave his hand to the plague-stricken; but ... but there are other acts
“gave him leave? leave? that’s just like you young men,” said the
gave her the answer in her own heart. “desire nothing for thyself,
gathered round nicholas in the sitting room.
gasping voice. “where are we? in moscow, i know. i don’t matter,
galloping toward him. they were our uhlans who with disordered
galloped up to kutúzov and asked in the emperor’s name had the fourth
galloped on to the village where he was told that the commander in chief
gallantry lit up his face and as soon as the last figure of the
galicia he had managed to deal with the grand duke when the latter
gained a step on his old comrades of the cadet corps; how in wartime
gaily, with a wide swing of his arm.
gaily.
gaiety with which zherkóv spoke, and to the intentional coldness of
further back till his curly hair touched his shirt collar, and the hand
furlough after christmas to return with him to their regiment. his
furies and rages at everyone and everything, seizes the letters, opens
full speed. rostóv, fearing to be crushed or swept into the attack on
fulfill thy will?” and scarcely had she put that question than god
fulfill the one which enjoined every mason to set an example of moral
fugitives returned, the battalions re-formed, and the french who had
    * frühstück: breakfast.
frowning and taking his daughter’s hand; he did not kiss her, but only
frowning and silent.
frowning.
fro with dignity, offered surmises about the weather, or touched on
front. pierre stood smiling but silent. one man, older than the others
front of us.
front of the ranks. suddenly one shot after another rang out from the
front of the infantry, who had to wait.
front line, as if their differences would be settled there amongst the
front and men four abreast, spread across the bridge and began to emerge
front and back. her bust, which had always seemed like marble to pierre,
front.
from which they had dashed out so impetuously, the conversation had
from which the shouting came. he felt both frightened and pleased to be
from which spectacles have just been removed, had also a frightened and
from which occasional puffs were blown by an invisible smoker.
“from where to where, your majesty?”
“from what i have heard,” said pierre, blushing and breaking into
from weeping and sat down beside dr. lorrain, who was sitting in a
from vienna to znaim was shorter and better than the road for the
from vienna kutúzov wrote to his old comrade, prince andrew’s father.
from various people and retelling the town gossip.
from understanding—how am i to put it?—i am afraid my way of looking
from this distressful life, and leads it to its place of recompense and
from the wood, mustered the men who were woodcutting, and, allowing the
from the way the regimental commander saluted the commander in chief and
from the theater, had had supper and were grouped round the clavichord.
from the shelf the first book that came to his hand (it was caesar’s
from the right flank, beside which the carriage passed the company,
from the revolution leaving the people to anarchy, and napoleon alone
from the ranks. a morose soldier marching on the left turned his eyes on
from the masses around them, the smoke and the increasing fog, to see
from the hints contained in his letter and given by the little princess,
from the hill. there was no one now between the squadron and the enemy
from the guards just before this campaign. he behaved very well in the
from the folds of her frock.
from the field of battle with the pale and terrified ober-hofmarschal
from the drawing room.
from the doctor to pierre. to him, in a particularly respectful and
from the direction of olmütz in front of them, a group was seen
“from the direction, it must be the enemy,” repeated rostóv.
from the deafening sounds of his own guns around him, the whistle and
from the crumpled heap under the table would save him, now counted the
from the bottom of the slope, where the parleys had taken place, came
from the army to sergéy kuzmích, in which the emperor said that he was
from that distorted mouth issued an indistinct, hoarse sound. anna
from that day the eldest princess quite changed toward pierre and began
from sitting on the outer sill was being forced out by two footmen, who
from prince andrew to the staff officer.
from pétenka—he took part in it—and it’s all true. when
from passing, “won’t this be too much for poor uncle at a moment
from my heart as to an old acquaintance.”
from másha, the lady’s maid, the necessary report of how handsome the
from laughing.
from la grippe; grippe being then a new word in st. petersburg, used
from home, at dinners, parties, and balls.
from hollabrünn) received murat’s dispatch with the proposal of a
from his son.
from his horse in a pool of blood. nobody gave him a look or thought of
from his cheek. prince andrew forced his way to him.
from him, though she knew that already, and remarked that they might
from him. “there, you see!” and he drew attention to the bullets
from him. “he used to have a predilection for bacchus.”
from him, and rostóv felt as in a dream that he continued to be carried
“from héloïse?” asked the prince with a cold smile that showed his
from headquarters behind the village to the left, and thither rostóv
“from general field marshal kutúzov?” he asked. “i hope it is
from early morning the smart clean troops were on the move, forming up
from early morning strenuous activities and efforts had begun and by ten
“from dürrenstein to krems.”
from denísov, rode past too, at the rear of his squadron—that is,
from behind still came the shouts: “onto the ice, why do you stop? go
from behind.
from all sides were heard the footsteps and talk of the infantry, who
from all sides reports reach me,” etc.
“‘from all my riding,’ he writes to the emperor, ‘i have got a
from actions which would torment him afterwards.”
frock and hair.
frigid politeness.
fright were amused by pierre’s lisp and the new words they had not
frightened here?” and the artilleryman understood him.
friend, that i look on marriage as a divine institution to which we must
friend’s look was now still more clearly expressed in the smile
“friendship laughs at distance,” began prince vasíli in his usual
friendship at all; i simply feel that the army is my vocation.”
friendship.”
friend’s hand.
friends had pledged themselves in an indissoluble alliance to uphold
friendly words to officers he had known in the turkish war, sometimes
friend, but nicholas avoided him. with that peculiar feeling of youth,
friend bolkónski, whom he had not seen for two years.
friend a model of perfection because prince andrew possessed in the
friend.”
friend...”
“fr... fr...” snorted prince bolkónski. “the prince is making a
freshness, an unconsciousness of her own powers, and an as yet untrained
fresh anecdotes were heard of individual examples of heroism shown by
fresh and pretty face yet more attractive.
frenchwoman very readily and, looking at her with a smile, talked to her
frenchwoman blushed and went away without a word. when he reached his
french were putting out the fire which the wind was spreading, and thus
french, turning to a general, “my husband is deserting me? he is going
french troops who are being raised in france will join us, and the peace
french to suppose that here—in the center—the main russian forces
french) to prince vasíli. “it’s not as at annette’s * receptions
french to pass him, had made a bayonet charge with two battalions and
french though he spoke it badly, offered to conduct prince andrew.
french, there would be great hope of saving the army; to let the
french, smoke appeared all along their uneven ranks, and musket shots
french since suvórov met them. he feared that bonaparte’s genius
french pronunciation which she could allow herself when conversing with
frenchmen, and though but a moment before he had been galloping to get
frenchman remembers his bayonet and stabs him....”
frenchman, holding him down by the sleeve in a friendly way to prevent
frenchman also stopped and took aim. rostóv closed his eyes and stooped
french, he did not know. there was no one near.
french forestall him at znaim meant the exposure of his whole army to a
french families. he is one of the genuine émigrés, the good ones. and
french column, with its officers leading, appeared from below the hill.
french colonel who had been taken prisoner by our dragoons. our officers
french. but this adjutant returned half an hour later with the news that
french battalion rushes to the bridgehead, spikes the guns, and the
french. a group of cossack scouts retired down the hill at a trot. all
french!”
free, so lighthearted! and i did not realize how happy i was! when did
freemasonry presented itself to him.
free.’ isn’t that lovely and noble! yes, very noble? isn’t it?”
freedom i could understand it and should be the first to enter the army;
freedom and told her that one way or another he would never cease to
freckled gunner in a merry voice, standing to attention.
frantically, had such an effect that they managed to squeeze through
frankly, i don’t want to. i am speaking of the staff in general.”
francis received him standing in the middle of the room. before the
français,” said dolgorúkov, with grave satisfaction. “good,
fragmentary sentences tried to explain about a doll which she produced
“fo’ward, with god, lads!” rang out denísov’s voice. “at a
four times—till i get what i want. i don’t mind what they think of
four thousand strong, to the right across the hills from the krems-znaim
found the prussian army. borís, speaking with deliberation, told them
found them to be so tiresome that it wearied him to look at or listen to
found the count with it in his hand, sobbing and laughing at the same
found out, nothing discovered,” pierre again said to himself. “all
found expression in calling her maid “my dear” and speaking to her
found a kind of tantalizing satisfaction.
found.”
for your sake.”
for your obstinacy,” said kírsten.
for your neighbor? have you ever thought of your tens of thousands
for wine.
“for what have you come hither?” asked the newcomer, turning in
forward with unnatural speed but yet stayed on the same spot. from
“forward, with god!” said bagratión, in a resolute, sonorous voice,
forward toward the old man with a forced and timid smile.
forward. of bolkónski, nothing was said, and only those who knew him
“forward, lads!” he shouted in a voice piercing as a child’s.
forward. “company commanders!” he shouted in a voice accustomed to
forward beside schmidt with the bullets merrily whistling all around,
forward and, stooping over the dying man, beckoned to lorrain from
forward, and experienced great happiness.
for us. the field marshal looks on and waits for letters addressed
     * “forty thousand men massacred and the army of our allies
forty paces’ distance nothing could be seen. for three minutes all had
for two days after that rostóv did not see dólokhov at his own or at
fortune. suddenly he heard a familiar voice repeating something to him a
for trees and gullies for men and continually discovering his mistakes.
“for tomorrow!” said he, quickly finding the page and making a
fortnight’s retreat, the russian troops had halted and after a fight
for three days, and not one of them knew or imagined what was in store
for this failure, the enemy placed ten guns to the right of the village
(for they were speaking french) at least with a russian who would, he
for the two approaching battalions. while he was speaking, the curtain
for the tenth time, molière’s words: “mais que diable allait-il
for the society of ladies, began to come often to the house, and the
for these simple, kindly people.
for the next battle are planned by him alone. nominally he is only an
for themselves.
for the most part handsome fellows and, as is always the case in an
“for the last time i say to you—turn all your attention upon
for the hussars to retreat with the infantry. they were cut off from
for the good we have done them.’ father took her when she was homeless
for the future, pierre’s journeys and occupations, the war, and so
for the countess.”
for the attainment of that purpose.
for the aged? and is it not a palpable, unquestionable good if a
for that. yes, for that alone! i shall never tell anyone, but, oh god!
for some days in moscow and was staying as usual at his father’s
for russia, for the orthodox greek faith! all that is beautiful, but
for prince andrew.
for petersburg alone.
“for not dilly-dallying and not hanging to a woman’s apron strings.
for negligence or inefficiency so staggered him that, forgetting the
for my sake! did you know?”
for more than a week preparations were being made, rough drafts of
for more than anything else in the world, did not know how to approach
forming up within twice the range of a musket shot. the general in
forming a complete whole with her dress, but all the charm of her body
former pupil of his.
former position. a huge, broad-shouldered gunner, number one, holding
former position after the campaign, had returned to petersburg and come
formerly in anna pávlovna’s presence, pierre had always felt that
“for me? for me?... trying for me!...” said she.
formed up at intervals, and wheeled round other similar masses of
formed the picket line on either side, there were many curious onlookers
formed a definite idea of what an attack was and were expecting to hear
formed.
for life, but i don’t understand that, i forget quickly.”
for his reply, surrounded him, and led him to the drawing room. it was
for his part tried to pretend to the count that he considered these
for his life, but for the courage he needed and which he knew would not
for himself. he remembered his mother’s last letter. “what would she
for him, prince bagratión sat at dinner, talking with some commanding
for him, but again pressed on him so that they jammed his leg, and those
for him.
for her. when the little princess had grown accustomed to life at bald
forgot the sovereigns’ presence. “lads, it’s not the first village
forgot them. his head was burning, he felt himself bleeding to death,
forgotten. our duty, my dear, is to rectify his mistake, to ease his
“for god’s sake... i can’t walk. for god’s sake!”
for girls and boys.”
forgetting that she was dancing with a grown-up partner she bent her
forgetting that it was unbecoming for the girls to see men undressed,
forget. but, my dear, will you not give us a little hope of touching
forget all that.... she says: ‘i shall love him always, but let him be
for everything, the colonel moved forward and ordered the second
“forever?” said the little girl. “till death itself?”
“forever?” said prince andrew. “nothing’s forever.”
forestall him, threw off his fur coat and ran on tiptoe through the
foresight for every eventuality, every possibility even to the smallest
foreign cavalry with red epaulets, probably french. he could see nothing
forehead, wetting him with her tears. then after a pause she said:
forehead was moist. prince andrew touched the head with his hand; even
forehead, over which was beautiful light-brown hair smelling of pomade.
forehead. he went to the cot in confusion, sure that he would find it
forehead.
forefather adam to our own times, is that temple reared which is to be
force their way through them with bayonets.
force had already descended into the valley toward the ponds and lakes
for a seat.
for anything and i never will again, nor have i ever reminded you of my
for an instant, but there was no second report as he had expected. he
for an answer. his birth and position in society were not bad. “well,
for a moment he dozed, but in that short interval innumerable things
for a mere fancy?” said nicholas taking her hand.
for a long time pierre could not understand, but when he did, he jumped
for a long time he could not utter a word, so that the rhetor had to
for a long time, always in the same fog, descending and ascending hills,
“forage has not been supplied to the extent...”
for a few seconds collected his thoughts. then the russian ambassador
for about a minute.
for!”
foot, which he was then touching with his own under the clavichord.
foot to foot uncertain with which to start, then settled down, galloped
footsteps. pierre rose and said it was getting late. prince vasíli gave
footmen and cooks were getting the supper, count bezúkhov had a
footmen, and awaited each expected dish with some anxiety. everything
footing that all who knew them, including anatole himself, respected him
foot, and galloped on.
“fool... or dummy!” he muttered.
foolish as soon as he uttered them, while on the contrary hippolyte’s
food.
“folly... folly! death... lies...” he repeated, puckering his face.
follows the current of his own thoughts, “things will have gone too
follows that pierre will not be pierre but will become count bezúkhov,
follows:
following the princess, whom a footman was helping into the carriage.
following the mass movements and general orders, and constantly studying
following passage, in german, from the archduke ferdinand’s letter:
following budget:
follow, for this was clearly only a prelude.
followed was like the first movement of the main wheel of a large tower
followed singly. the footmen began moving about, chairs scraped, the
followed proved that the commander in chief at that moment was absorbed
followed him in, as if there were now no further need for permission to
followed by the owner of the manly voice, a dashing infantry officer who
followed by their suites. kutúzov, affecting the manners of an old
followed by a cossack.
followed anna mikháylovna out of the carriage, and only then began
fly upwards. the angel’s upper lip was slightly raised as though
fly! gracious me, they did rattle past! it’s time i knew the imperial
fluttering in that light. túshin had not returned, the doctor had not
fluttering above the fire and remembered a russian winter at his warm,
flung it down and began:
flung it away. tíkhon caught it and handed it to a footman. the little
flower tubs and hid there.
flower; natásha, half grown up and half child, was now childishly
flourishing his arm, called him to enter.
flourished his castanets as if threatening someone. the soldiers,
floundering silvery fish in the watering can, on that dam over which for
fleeing crowd. a mounted general separated himself from the infantry and
flayed, some not, and broken-down carts beside which solitary soldiers
flattered by this. anna pávlovna arranged the different groups in her
flanks was more than six miles, even if the messenger were not killed
flank now that it is nearly four o’clock and the battle is lost?
flank. in the center túshin’s forgotten battery, which had managed to
flank,” he said to himself, “the kiev grenadiers and the podólsk
flank; he knew that all the guns there had been abandoned at the very
flag let it fall from his hands. it swayed and fell, but caught on the
flabby that they looked heavier below, were twitching violently; but
fixing his weary eyes on the paper, began to read them with a fixed and
fixed straight on his son’s. something twitched in the lower part of
fixed on her.
fixed on.
five years, if he goes on like this?” presently he added: “that’s
five times. he entered the room softly. the little princess, plump and
five minutes later princess mary from her room heard something heavy
five in the afternoon,” replied bolkónski growing more animated and
fist, and tapped it on the floor, making the sparks fly, while he
fish for this dinner. the count had been a member and on the committee
first to one side and then to the other watched the smokers with evident
first time since their encounter concerning telyánin. rostóv, feeling
first regiment roared “hurrah!” so deafeningly, continuously, and
“first-rate,” said pierre, looking at dólokhov, who with a bottle
first place because her provinces have been pillaged—they say the holy
first pair of gloves, a man’s, he said that pierre could not know
first of one and then of another priest.
“first of all you must drink!”
first of all devote some time to solitude and self-examination and do
“first of all, dear friend, tell me how you are. set your friend’s
first not only what had been said but also what kutúzov would have
first he had ever written. borís and natásha were at the other window
    first epilogue: 1813 - 20
first because pierre appeared to his hussar eyes as a rich civilian, the
first appearance in society. anna pávlovna greeted him with the nod she
firmness, and expedition. i consider myself fortunate to have such a
firmness and certainty of his vocation, which radiated from his whole
firmly resolved to answer his father-in-law. moreover, the words of the
firmly believed in the possibility of the brotherhood of men united in
firmly.
firing was, he began to look for the general and his staff where they
firing?” rostóv kept asking as he came up to russian and austrian
firing in the valley. not a single muscle of his face—which in those
firing incendiary balls at the village of schön grabern visible just
firing at the augesd dam and was looking at the killed and wounded left
firing at augesd.
fires were lighted and the talk became more audible. captain túshin,
fire! our stories have some weight, not like the stories of those
fire. from pain, cold, and damp, a feverish shivering shook his whole
fire, fanned by the breeze, was rapidly spreading. the french columns
fired in the air; a third was striking the horse kutúzov himself rode.
fire and pressed it there!”
finished phrases of general interest. these sayings were prepared in the
finished.
fingers twitched nervously.
fingers, drew out a gold imperial, and lifting his eyebrows gave it to
finger at him, “i have even heard of your doings in paris!”
“fine young fellow! fine young fellow!” he said. “well, come and
fine,” said a corporal, chaffing a thin little soldier who bent under
“fine men!” remarked napoleon, looking at a dead russian grenadier,
fine! i don’t want anything, prince.”
“fine fellows, the pávlograds!” remarked the emperor.
    * fine eyes.
fine cords would soon get a bit rubbed,” said an infantryman, wiping
find the baby. at last he saw him: the rosy boy had tossed about till he
finds you to his taste as a daughter-in-law and makes a proposal to you
find, and still seeks, some secret motive in our actions. what answer
finally there were six thousand rubles for his outfit and various other
final instructions, orders, and commissions to the baggage men
filled by the domestic serfs—the men on one side and the women on
figure of túshin who was sitting cross-legged like a turk beside him.
fight. you’ll see—we shall retire.”
fighting russian soldier without connections and intrigues, and to one
fighting hussar who had been under fire.
fighting cocks preparing for battle, each vainly trying to detect signs
fighting army (with the pávlograds on the right flank of the front);
fight bonaparte by this new science you call ‘strategy.’”
fifty members of the english club and fifty guests were awaiting the
field under fire, as he had done at the head of the kursk regiment at
fields and forests of fir and birch, which were partly cut down. the
field of austerlitz, enduring the heedless blows of his left foot and
field. instead of the moving horses and hussars’ backs, he saw nothing
field glass and shrugging his shoulders, “so it is! they’ll be fired
feverish delirium or drunkenness.
feu, et oublie celui qu’il devait faire faire sur l’ennemi!” *(2)
fetch the frenchman, moreau,” he said, alluding to the invitation made
festivities and fireworks are becoming wearisome.”
festive in his air, which, in conjunction with his firm and virile
festive around him. nearer and nearer to rostóv came that sun shedding
ferdinand disgraces himself. you abandon vienna, give up its
felt the tension of the amorous air in the house, and also noticed a
felt the impossibility of going to sleep on such a night. it was light
felt that the battle of which he had brought tidings was far, far
felt so glad to be free from his own lawlessness and to submit his will
felt perfectly happy. just then the commander appeared on the bridge.
felt it indecorous to speak of her pregnancy before pierre, though the
felt coat, stretched his legs, and set his cap straight. the head of the
felt a wish to speak to the stranger, but by the time he had made up his
fellow! what you have just said is good, very good. of course you
fellows on the staff who get rewards without doing anything!”
fellows have all lost your wits, or i have outlived mine. may god help
fellow,” he said abruptly and eagerly, “i must confess to having
fellow could have played such a prank on a policeman.
fellow.”
fellow.”
fell from him. he was glad, and at the same instant began to pity the
feigned severity. “you spoil her, ilyá,” she added, turning to her
feigned—or so it seemed to rostóv. he put his horse to a trot to
feet were the only sounds that could be heard. anna mikháylovna, with
feet that moved through the sticky mud that covered the planks of the
feet into his slippers and his arms into the sleeves of his dressing
feet in their overboots on the table, and began to reflect.
feet in low shoes, iogel flew first across the hall with natásha, who,
feel,” thought he, “if she saw me here now on this field with the
feel that in that place and on that day, it was improper to speak so of
feels, anyone who comes in sight of the enemy, and that feeling gives
feel like it, she became enthusiastic in order not to disappoint the
feelings in others, and if never having felt them i cannot approve of
feeling; sharing with the young folk of the rostóvs’ household a
feelings. but much as all the rest laughed, talked, and joked, much
feeling of sickening agitation.
feeling of devotion returned to him even more strongly than before. when
feeling of a hare fleeing from the hounds. one single sentiment, that
feel afraid.”
feeble voice to which he tried to impart a dashing note, ill-suited to
feeble voice, so high pitched and irresolute. his face grew more and
feeble voice of the commander in chief was heard. the regiment roared,
fédya, my dear count; that, believe me, is why i am so fond of you. few
features. nicholas was short with curly hair and an open expression.
features, gave him a rather comical expression. bekleshëv and theodore
fear would prevent her understanding any of her father’s further
fear this will oblige one half the army to shoot the other.”
fears nothing so much as a general battle is impossible.”
fear’s all gone, and your only thought is not to let him get away!’
fearing to relax, shouted with his mouth wide open and passed on.
fearing to be captured by the french on the way to krems.
feared him.
fear appeared on her flushed face.
fear, and the thought that he might be killed or badly wounded never
favorite, “how is it you have so little tact? don’t you see you are
fault. what’s he to do if he has such luck?... and it’s not my fault
fault!” and her voice quivered like that of a child about to cry.
father with a laugh.
father to the ambassador’s entertainment; she wore a ball dress and
father to fits of bloodthirsty rage. and when after pierre’s
father to be a connection of prince vasíli’s. the elderly lady who
father there would be nothing i could reproach you with,” said anna
“father, tell me how it happened,” she asked through her tears.
father’s study as the latter wished to say good-by to him alone. all
father’s room with the good-humored and victorious air natural to
father’s room, that huge room in which count bezúkhov had died.
father’s ridicule of the new men, and drew him on and listened to him
father’s nature showed itself in pierre. he felt the fascination and
father’s letter, he returned to the nursery.
“father,” she said, “do not turn away from me, let us weep
father’s friendship for you; but now i entreat you for god’s sake to
father’s face with an eager and respectful look. “how is your
father’s case.
father, muttered in a whisper:
“father kutúzov.”
father... it’s bad....” he reflected, but while he was thinking this
father in order to puzzle or test his sister.
father-in-law and now at princess mary. when they left the table she
father, he feels for you.”
father, count bezúkhov, and showed them her own box. princess hélène
father and son. this lasted about two minutes, which to pierre seemed an
“father! andrew!”—said the ungraceful, awkward princess with such
father and anna mikháylovna, that it had something to do with her
father and andrew. i shall be so happy when she is his wife. she is so
father?”
fat finger.
     fate—(the fate of the army at ulm).”
fate. it is in your hands.”
fate, her father-in-law, and her husband. after crying she had fallen
fate and in spite of the pleasures and distractions around me i cannot
“faster!” came the word of command, and rostóv felt rook’s flanks
fastening his coat. when he had finished, he turned to bezúkhov, and
fastened to the cording of his uniform and, indicating a bandaged arm,
fast asleep with his head on his arm.
fast as her nimble little feet would carry her. borís did not laugh.
farther, probably along the line of the french camp. rostóv no longer
farther into the region where the army was already in action.
farther and farther he rode away, stopping at other regiments, till at
far. by intrigues, violence, exile, and executions, french society—i
“fancy, with his powerful mind, indulging in such nonsense!”
fancies.
famous order of the day to general bennigsen:
family, was the most gifted with a capacity to feel any shades of
family’s, and his friends’, and the enemy’s intention to kill him
family life continually rose in her imagination. she drove them away and
family consultation; is it not so, prince?”
family, but was kept all summer in moscow by his new duties. dólokhov
familiar voice, “what i say is that if it were possible to know
familiar voice. “one is afraid of the unknown, that’s what it is.
familiar to rostóv; the other on a beautiful chestnut horse (which
familiar gallop of coquetry, without any ulterior motive or any
false. he was happy to be seeing him. he knew that he might and even
fallen, and an old trooper on the flank, a noncommissioned officer who
fallen!”
‘faithful slave,’ as you call yourself! but how do you do? i see i
faithfully as i can, without disquieting myself by examining my feelings
faire dans cette galère?” * occurred to him, and he began to laugh at
faint with fear lest the baby should be drowned in the font, and awaited
failed him. he was seized by panic and could not go where it was
failed. borís on the contrary at once found his footing, and related
faculty, so invaluable in society, of composure and imperturbable
fact of a great man executing a duc—or even an ordinary man who—is
fact.
facing the quartermaster who was reporting to him. on seeing rostóv,
face with prince andrew, who came out frowning and looking old. pierre
face, which had been so radiantly happy all that saint’s day, suddenly
face was animated, which, however, did not conceal its sunken and faded
face to prince andrew, smiled, and waved his hand.
faces, the wall of soldiers burdened with knapsacks and muskets marched
faces of the crew bustling round the guns, from the sight of the blood
face, shook his head, and going up to him silently kissed him on the
faces. (he distinctly saw an old french officer who, with gaitered
face looked worn—he too had evidently not slept all night. he glanced
face. “let him see whether i am a coward!” he thought.
face in the lace of her mother’s mantilla—not paying the least
face instantly changed and assumed an offensively affected, sugary
face; his eyes continually wandered from one object to another.
face changed into a winning and piteous look of fear. her beautiful eyes
face assumed the coarse, unpleasant expression peculiar to him. shaking
face assumed its melancholy expression), “he was mentioned at her
face assumed a forced unnatural expression as soon as she looked in a
face as if driving off a troublesome fly. “and why are you stopping
face, and prince andrew saw that hippolyte, of whom—he had to
face and just nodded to him with his long head. but after it was
face, and again at the arm, and on his face a feeble, piteous smile
face, already growing old, though he was dressed like a most fashionable
face.
eyes. what she found hardest to bear was to know that on such occasions
eyes, went with unusually hurried steps down the long corridor leading
eyes to complete the show of prisoners, could not fail to attract his
eyes. the sick man was turned on to his side with his face to the wall.
eyes. then having satisfied himself that all eyes were fixed on him,
eyes. the englishman looked on sideways, pursing up his lips. the man
eyes still shifted from side to side but with a downward look not rising
eyes, rostóv re-entered that world of home and childhood which had no
eyes rolling as he sang, with his small, husky, but true voice, some
eyes off him. his brother and sisters struggled for the places nearest
eye socket. “yes, he has a right to speak so calmly of those men’s
eyes lit up so that her face was entirely transformed. then she suddenly
eyes kept closing, and in his fancy appeared—now the emperor, now
eyes. his shriveled old hands were folded and on the finger of one of
eyes he was every day more and more connected with her, that it was
eyes. he really was in love with the tsar and the glory of the russian
eyes had uttered french phrases between his teeth. every muscle of his
eyes grew moist. “hurrah!” cried the three hundred voices again,
eyes grew dim. by the expression of her father’s face, not sad, not
eyes full of tears and of thoughts, gazing shiningly and imploringly at
“eyes front!” then, like the crowing of cocks at sunrise, this was
eyes fixed on the dark face of a large icon of the saviour lit by a
eyes. “but i’ll go to bezúkhov’s myself. pierre has arrived, and
eyes attracted him irresistibly.
eyes at her sister-in-law.
eyes and saw close before him the head and ears of the horse he was
eyes and indicating hélène with a sorrowful gesture. “ah, she is
eyes and ears intent on the colonel.
eyes.
eyes.
eyes.
eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of god, are
eyebrows which, when he frowned, sometimes hid the gleam of his shrewd,
extricated himself from an awkward situation and placed another in it,
extrémités de l’univers, nous allons lui faire éprouver le même
extraordinary may happen to one that honor and dishonor will be all the
extraordinary intelligence, the more so as in the depth of his heart it
extinguished and some spirit lighted, as pierre knew by the smell, and
externally was all in order, but had it pleased the commander in chief
extends along kobelnitz and sokolnitz behind the ponds that are there,
expression which was never to be seen on it in a drawing room. his eyes
expression. véra was good-looking, not at all stupid, quick at
expression, though many of them knew that what he was saying was a lie
expression the sculptor had happened to give the angel’s face, prince
expression—the same man who had rushed out of the wattle shed. at that
expressions with the choicest french phrases—which was a peculiarity
expression she did not understand, and lay down again. he was suffering
expression only in her more and more beaming face and quivering nose.
expression on his face changed in a way evidently deliberate and
expression of profound and sincere devotion and respect mingled with
expression of her father’s. his face wore that expression when his
expression, looked observantly and sympathetically at the father and
expression. it was the heavy tread of princess mary that he heard.
expression, evidently habitual to him when conversing with women.
expression. “c’est... c’est du mack. nous sommes mackés (it is...
expression and went out again without saying a word. she looked at
expressing disapproval and dislike of kutúzov.
expressing... as in its last note... you understand... besides, unless
express his opinion as he had hoped to, left on him a vague and uneasy
expresses his opinion to kutúzov, to weyrother, and to the emperors.
expressed the concentrated and happy resolution you see on the face of
expressed impetuosity and enthusiasm. nicholas blushed when he entered
expressed his opinion more openly. he shrugged his shoulders when pierre
expressed disapproval of dólokhov’s living at their house, and how
exposing himself to the first blows of the enemy, for there must be no
expose to a bullet, and then you congratulate us on the victory! admit
exposed! if i were asked what i desire most on earth, it would be to be
exposed. another emissary rode to the russian line to announce the peace
exposed, and without fuel or forage, so something must be done, and, as
exposed—and she seemed to bring the glamour of a ballroom with her as
explanation with nicholas, sónya twirled about before she left home
explanations, however clear they might be. whether it was the
explaining that dólokhov was betting with stevens, an english naval
explained prince andrew. “the others, one’s neighbors, le prochain,
explained how to rivet the hoof and went away to his own quarters.
experiencing a new and peculiar pleasure. sónya, muttering to herself,
experience that feeling during those memorable days preceding the battle
experienced a variety of most complex sensations. he felt afraid of what
expeditions to olmütz to visit a certain caroline the hungarian,
expedition.... but what’s the southern army to do? prussia is
expecting two very interesting men tonight, le vicomte de mortemart, who
expecting to hear something very profound. at last he came up to morio.
expecting the summons to zakúska, * avoid engaging in any long
expecting that he would have a chance to give a reliable account, which
expecting anything from yourself in the future, you will feel at every
expecting a crisis.”
expect he has forgotten me. he paid me attentions in those days,” said
expected to be at once presented to the emperor. at the chief entrance
expected this.
expectations of those who knew her. the subdued smile which, though it
existence of such an incomprehensible being, a being all-powerful,
executing of the plan.
executed him—also for some reason. what is bad? what is good? what
excuses now! it’s your turn to sing the ba’cawolla—i entweat
excuse me, vicomte—i must tell it in russian or the point will be
“excuse me, general,” interrupted kutúzov, also turning to prince
excuse his costume.
exclamation he was asking the adjutant to wait, and he went on with the
exclaimed in excellent french.
exclaimed, and immediately seizing him by the shoulder and looking
excitement, rushed toward the drawing room door, probably in order to
excitement, around chin and mouth. the quartermaster frowned, looking
excitement and to being unaccustomed to speak of abstract matters in
excitement.
excitement.
excitedly animated and healthy men.” so thinks, or at any rate
excited and irritated by these thoughts prince andrew went toward his
except veneration could such a man as my father evoke? and i am so
except to pierre and hélène, whose presence he seemed not to notice.
exception made, and borís transferred into the regiment of semënov
except in the army; i am not a diplomat or a government clerk.—i
except a few scattered skirmishers. an empty space of some seven hundred
excellent dinners for the officers at every halting place. the regiments
excellency’s participation in the common action is highly valued by
excellency. shall i go with some of my hussars to see?” replied
excellency prince vasíli kurágin and his son, i understand?” she
excellency?... nobody knows.”
excellency... i had no men... your excellency.”
excellency!”
exceedingly lofty, the members of the household and the footmen—one
exceeded twenty thousand rubles. dólokhov was no longer listening to
exasperated with one another and, long after the action had begun on
exasperated whisper, evidently meaning to wound his sister.
exalted personages passing in the streets in their elegant carriages
exaggeration quite contrary to christian simplicity. let us rather read
exaggerated grasseyement, “the prince has been scolding michael
“exactly, not a hair’s breadth farther,” answered prince vasíli,
exactitude, what minuteness, what knowledge of the locality, what
exactitude. he always came to table under precisely the same conditions,
exacting, so that without being a hardhearted man he inspired such fear
evil. le prochain—your kiev peasants to whom you want to do good.”
evil can there be in it if unfortunate people, our serfs, people like
evident that the cadet was liberal with his tips and that it paid to
evident that he not only knew everyone in the drawing room, but had
evidently wishing to give her words a very definite meaning. “i
evidently wished to draw him on.
evidently weakened, was undertaking nothing.
evidently those in front had halted. all remained where they were in the
evidently the prince understood her, and also understood, as he had done
evidently rigged up by soldiers out of any available materials and
evidently not because he was shaven but because they had never grown.
evidently listening to herself with pleasure, and speaking with
evidently in the village itself and behind the hill. to the left from
evidently in a fit of rage, his coal-black eyes with their bloodshot
evidently glad of a chance to say quicker in words what he wanted to
evidently forced. not only the guests but even the footmen waiting at
evidently expecting him to bow or to step out of his way. prince andrew
evidently did not realize what they were doing.
evidently did not expect.
evidently also felt depressed and constrained with his visitor, “i am
evident he had reflected on this subject more than once, and he spoke
evident duty.” she paused. all were silent, expectant of what was to
evidence of the advantages of attacking that what had been discussed
every word and movement was described with ecstasy.
everywhere. he might easily become aide-de-camp to the emperor. you know
every time a ball flew past. rostóv on the left flank, mounted on his
everything within and around him seemed confused, senseless, and
everything was becoming more and more happy and animated. “oh, how i
everything that took place and was reported to him was exactly what he
“everything’s the same with them. they know nothing about it! where
“everything’s still the same with them,” thought nicholas,
everything seemed so futile and insignificant in comparison with the
everything!” said nicholas. “and i will prove it to you.”
everything over with, and i happen to be there, i’ll go at once, to
everything, only i have nothing....”
everything may be over for me! all these memories will be no more, none
everything is calculated, and i don’t like that. but denísov...”
everything. i often wonder at you, annette—how at your age you
everything in perfect order, only one little thing is lacking, namely,
everything!” (he put one arm around pierre and the other around his
everything from the table napkins to the silver, china, and glass bore
everything from society and giving nothing in return. you have become
everything before you, everything. and you....”
everything became clear, and in all corners of moscow the same things
everything and everybody at last and had spoken such pathetic words to
every ten seconds a cannon ball flew compressing the air around, or
everyone waited, so emphatically and eagerly did he demand their
everyone’s situation. tout comprendre, c’est tout pardonner. * think
everyone, including anna pávlovna, felt this.
everyone he could stop, but got no answer from anyone.
“everyone has his achilles’ heel,” continued prince andrew.
everyone ducked. it flopped into something moist, and the general fell
everyone again looked toward the door, which creaked as the second
everyone adopted toward him the tone of men who know something others do
everyone.
everyone!
every muscle of telyánin’s pale, terrified face began to quiver, his
every day he said to himself one and the same thing: “it is time i
everybody! not forgetting anyone. i always said when he was only so
everybody laughed, and hippolyte louder than anyone. he was evidently
everybody laughed a great deal. at the head of the table, where the
“everybody is wondering to whom the count will leave his fortune,
everybody, for another ten years. it would be far easier and simpler for
every advantage. what receptions we had in poland! what dinners and
ever was borís resolved to serve in future not according to the written
ever since he had overtaken the regiment in poland, had lived with the
ever because anatole’s presence had vividly recalled to her the time
even wish to know of his existence but would now have been offended
even try to do so. all were watching the count and márya dmítrievna.
event must be allowed to disturb the appointed order of the day. prince
event. in the english club, where all who were distinguished, important,
even their faces, more and more distinctly. they were our horse guards,
even pushed aside, he began wrapping it round the princess. either from
even people who had formerly been spiteful toward him and evidently
even more so. i like being alone.... father likes her very much. she and
even more merrily than on the previous night. denísov celebrated his
even more beautiful than it had been three days before at the review. it
evenly, and then raised his head. he had an intellectual and distinctive
even know if it would be a good thing (he even felt, he knew not why,
even in the best, most friendly and simplest relations of life, praise
even in his way; but all at once he felt that this would not do, and
evening when the rewards bestowed by the emperor were mentioned.
evening was this:
evening to get in) “i only wished to say that we are wrong to fight
evening. there was room enough in the wide corridor for the generals to
evening passed, night came, and the feeling of suspense and softening of
evening light and the blue tunics advancing from the other side with
evening in advance of him, and he and his son arrived next day.
evening.
“even if it were a great deal of trouble...” answered prince andrew,
even every footstep in that house since the terrible news had come, so
even denísov was nothing compared to dólokhov—“you must understand
even by a ball dress.
    * “europe will never be our sincere ally.”
eternity.” and again he twisted the screw with the stripped thread,
eternal, and infinite in all his attributes?...”
estrangement, and ridicule with which troops of different arms usually
estime que je professe pour the orthodox russian army, j’avoue que
estates in the south and there attending to the welfare of his serfs.
estates. his new brethren gave him letters to the kiev and odessa masons
estate near moscow, and to receive many people who formerly did not
established intimacy with the french marshals, and so dazzled by the
essential to speak the whole truth.
essential, and after a short interval followed her. anna mikháylovna
essen corps arrived and prussia took our side.
especially the youngest, the pretty one with the mole, who often made
especially appealed to pierre. the important mystery mentioned by the
especially after having dined, bolkónski felt that he could not take in
escorted him to the door, repeating something to him several times in
escape it anyhow.”
escape it all, and felt that dólokhov knew that he could save him from
escape, and bagratión’s four thousand men merrily lighted campfires,
escapade made everybody feel confused. denísov blushed too, but smiled
err, and in nothing more than in what they consider right and wrong.”
erect on his handsome black horse, looking about him in a leisurely and
erect, almost on tiptoe, with a soldier’s obsequious expression on his
equip him.”
equals, while his eyes occasionally sought out his fine well-set-up
equality. have people since the revolution become happier? on the
epaulettes had been packing with his valet in the rooms assigned to him.
envious and natásha could not help joining in.
enveloped in those beams, he heard his voice, that kindly, calm,
entrusted to his care and whom he intended to benefit.
entrusted to him, was pedantic in the fulfillment of his duties, severe
entrenchment. they had to hold their noses and put their horses to a
entrenchments looked out just as menacingly, and the unlimbered cannon
entrenchments being thrown up, the freshly dug clay of which showed up
entreaties. soon after anna pávlovna’s reception anna mikháylovna
entrance to the dam raised his hand and opened his mouth to address
entrance. the prince was working at the lathe and after glancing round
entrance, after scrutinizing the mother and son (who without asking to
entice him to marry my daughter and lend me the forty thousand rubles
enthusiasm—was only the loss of the battle of austerlitz, the
enthusiasms, dreams, and hopes of happiness or goodness, in prince
enter the drawing room? even if i like him i can’t now be myself with
enter that room.
entertainment at the gypsies’, with the result that he had no
entertaining supposition.
entering the misty region with a sound of hoofs and wheels and now and
entering the house, prince andrew saw nesvítski and another adjutant
entering the house occupied by kutúzov, asked for bolkónski. prince
entered the room. prince vasíli approached first, and she kissed the
entered the room.
entered the room.
entered the room.
entered their heads that it could have been otherwise at this meeting.
entered the drawing room elegantly dressed in the uniform of an
entered, the bronze handle of one of the doors turned and prince vasíli
entered his father’s dressing room (not with the contemptuous look and
entered, as if to say: “yes, that’s how i want you to look.”
entered.
“enough! what nonsense! above all, try to be respectful and cautious
enough to see a long way in the deserted street and it seemed more like
enough, at the end of the feast proposed the emperor’s health. “not
enormous whole.
enormous table would say: “well, dmítri, you’ll see that things are
enlighten their minds, by means handed on to us by tradition from those
enlightenment?”
enjoyment by sympathy with anyone’s sorrow,” she felt, and she said
enjoyed narrating all this, and did not seem to suspect that others,
enjoyable. that year two marriages had come of these balls. the two
engrossed by it, yet his strut seemed to indicate that, besides military
“england is done for,” said he, scowling and pointing his finger
engagement and his reception by the minister of war.
engaged; he was shouting “hurrah!”
energetically than anyone, led the guests into the drawing room, and
energetic a character. he is so accustomed to unlimited power that he is
enemy under the emperor’s command. commanded by the emperor himself
enemy three times as strong, who would hem him in from two sides.
enemy’s horse patrols could be discerned.
enemy, do not avenge thyself except by doing him good. thus fulfilling
enemy?”
enemies, he tried to continue reading. but feeling this to be senseless
endure this man who is a menace to everything.”
end spurred his horse.
end of the meal. he winked at the butler, whispered directions to the
end of his gun...” a soldier whose greatcoat was well tucked up said
ending pierre’s unpleasant and unamiable outburst. after the anecdote
ended with a thud into something soft... f-f-flop! and a cossack, riding
“encouraging us to get along quicker,” said another uneasily.
encounter one another at the clean, smart hussars who moved past them in
encounter an enemy invisible ten paces off. but the columns advanced
en conjure...”
   enchantress, say, to my forsaken lyre
encampment, and not within sight of the enemy before an action in
emptying his glass at one gulp he dashed it to the floor. many followed
empty and that the nurse had been hiding the dead baby. he drew the
emptied them, rolling the vodka in their mouths, and walked away from
empress’ field,” said he clearly and distinctly.
empress’ field, not understanding the significance of the firing, nor
employed by lively chatty people, and consisting in the assumption
emphatically.
emperor was pale, his cheeks sunken and his eyes hollow, but the charm,
emperor,” thought rostóv.
emperor. the emperor francis, a rosy, long faced young man, sat very
emperors. upon them the undivided, tensely passionate attention of that
emperor’s eyes met rostóv’s and rested on them for not more than
emperor’s arrival, lay several killed and wounded soldiers whom there
emperor,” said rostóv, and was about to spur his horse.
emperor not everyone could understand, and with his whole soul he shared
emperor napoleon if we take this bridge, so let us three go and take
emperor napoleon burns with impatience to make prince auersperg’s
emperor himself rode round his bivouacs. the soldiers, on seeing him,
emperor had only just fallen asleep and so savary had to wait. at midday
emperor francis would have been fulfilled long ago. i should long
emperor francis continued to look about him and did not listen.
emperor at once rode up to him, offered his services, and assisted him
emperor and the whole army, especially while the smoke hung over
emperor alexander’s visit to potsdam, and of how the two august
emperor alexander hurriedly to kutúzov, glancing courteously at the
emperor, about the remarks he had heard at court concerning the krems
emitting a smoke ring.
embroidered court uniform, knee breeches, and shoes, and had stars on
embracing prince vasíli.
embracing denísov. “nicholas wrote us... natásha, véra, look! here
embraced him and lifting his spectacles kissed his friend on the cheek
embittered look clouded her once handsome face, but only for a moment;
embarrassment looked pierre straight in the face.
embarrassing situation, and the expression on his face was invariably
embarrassing attentions. on the face of the wag zherkóv there suddenly
embarrassed voice, though it sounded severe to denísov—“but my
embarrassed him. he was like a man entirely absorbed in some occupation.
else the tsar did.
else, runs upstairs and does up her hair and wags her tail and is unlike
else,” replied anna pávlovna.
else, my dear boy, let me tell you it’s quite likely you’ll have to
else.
else.
elegantly. bilíbin’s services were valued not only for what he wrote,
eldest who was reading—the one who had met anna mikháylovna. the
eldest princess, who were sitting under the portrait of catherine the
elders which seems to say to the older generation, “we are prepared to
elders.
elderly face, and she took the money from under the handkerchief.
elder daughter, countess véra, with a smile.
elbows turned outwards, his hands on his knees, and his shoulders
elbows, as if to say: “you can tell me your views later, but now be so
elated. he had noticed a solitary tree ahead of him. this tree had been
ekonómov.
either the place they were leaving or that to which they were going.
either,” he thought. “yes, i did not know anything, anything at all
either,” he thought to himself, “i have done nothing wrong. have i
either. don’t i know that at the rate we are living our means won’t
eighty thousand allied troops rose from their bivouacs to the hum of
eh?... what then?... eh?”
“eh? what?” asked prince andrew.
“eh, is she pretty?” he asked with a wink.
“eh, is anything hurting you?” asked the soldier, shaking his shirt
“eh, eh, friend! come here a bit,” said she, assuming a soft high
eh, dmítri! gallop off to our moscow estate,” he said to the factotum
“eh, brother! they’ve all bolted long ago!” said the soldier,
egged on against each other.
effrayée, as he called it, shoes, and silk stockings.
effort to say this. “without a name and without means... and it
effort to move her shoulders or bend her arms when turning, or stamp
effort to look at the servant who stood constantly at the head of the
effort. the bottle was emptying perceptibly and rising still higher
efforts to seem calm.
effect on everyone, smiled and, evidently unmoved by what had been
effected the dangerous crossing of the straits of dover and captured
   e’en fortunate napoleon
edge of the clearing. the seconds, measuring the paces, left tracks in
écossaise was ended, he clapped his hands to the musicians and shouted
ebook or online at www.gutenberg.org
easy to take marshals, sitting on a sofa by the fire! that is true, but
easy. and tell me, please—i’ve been meaning to ask—how is he
easy.
early in the year 1806 nicholas rostóv returned home on leave. denísov
eager questions from all sides. the whole moving mass began pressing
eagerness and briskness presented a marked contrast to the dissatisfied
eagerly and rather disdainfully, not resting on anything although his
each visitor performed the ceremony of greeting this old aunt whom not
each time with fresh pleasure and each time discovered in it fresh
each time he touched his forehead. his face wore a calm look of piety
each other’s arms warmly pressing their lips to whatever place they
each of those present, and the advantages that might accrue. he took
each occasion had been driven back by grapeshot from the four isolated
each face, appraising the possibilities of establishing intimacy with
each ascent or descent of the road the crowds were yet denser and the
dying of fright. i did, ‘pon my word, i got that frightened!” said
dying man wished to see, her own admission was assured. casting a rapid
dying man, but passed by him, joined the eldest princess, and moved
dying father. “it is painful, but it does one good. it uplifts the
duty. the emperor is gracious, and i shan’t forget you if you deserve
duties on you, and you must be a man.”
dust from the sleeve of his uniform, and going up to a mirror examined
during this transfer he felt a little stronger and was able to look
during the five years he had known her, and how her head had cracked
during the battle, and feeling reassured he dozed off.... the dark
during that stay in petersburg, borís became an intimate in the
during rostóv’s short stay in moscow, before rejoining the army, he
dull without you,” said she, giving him a tender smile.
dull eyes looked at him in silence. it seemed to prince andrew that the
dull expression.
duke’s orders the men had marched all the way in step (a practice on
duke constantine pávlovich, who commanded the guards. the rostóvs
due to her misfortune. when conversation turned on her husband hélène
duel prove? that you’re a fool, que vous êtes un sot, but everybody
duelist, who was living with anatole. pierre smiled, looking about him
duelist and rake, and every now and then he glanced ironically at
duel he did not go to his bedroom but, as he often did, remained in his
duc even the most partial ceased to regard him as a hero. if to some
dry hands clenched with vexation at her not understanding a sum in
drummer, their leader, turned round facing the singers, and flourishing
drubetskáya, who as a member of the household was also seated in the
drowsiness overpowered him, red rings danced before his eyes, and the
drove his huge spurs in violently, and the horse, flourishing its tail
drops and again went up to the cot.
dropping into his usual after-dinner nap, and laughed at everything.
dropping her voice. “my wretched lawsuit takes all i have and makes no
dropped it into a leather pouch attached to the lathe, and, approaching
drooping tail.
drooping as he broke into a gallop.
driving into the court of count bezúkhov’s house. as the wheels
drive up, went to meet him.
drive the princess away by that scream... “killed!”
driver’s leg. their spirits once roused were, however, not diminished,
driven their two-horse carts loaded with wheat and had returned dusty
drink shop or fall ill. just as i could not stand his terrible physical
drink?”
dried and warmed themselves, cooked their porridge for the first time
drew in his legs and sat up, seeking a firm center of gravity. he sucked
drew his saber, and with a happy and resolute countenance, opening
drew her chair nearer to that of the countess.
drew anatole, whom she hardly knew, into these amusing recollections of
dress with her little hand, now arranging the scarf and looking at her
dress under her, hiding her face with her slender fingers, and sobbing
dress, mademoiselle bourienne’s ribbon, princess mary’s unbecoming
dressing gown, spectacled and wigless, shouting in an angry voice.
dressing gown looked out.
dressing gown every day, he invariably became confused and begged her to
dress her would prolong their banter and insistence. she flushed, her
dress, have it fetched. really! you know the fate of your whole life may
dress, girdled with a broad ribbon just below the breast.
dressed. princess mary’s self-esteem was wounded by the fact that
dressed gay young men on splendid, well-groomed, fresh, only slightly
dressed for his attendance at court in full parade uniform, which he
dressed, at a round table in the clean quarters allotted to them,
dressed and undressed, drying their shirts and leg bands or mending
dressed alike, in new pale-blue frocks, and were both fresh, rosy, and
dress as fresh and elegant as the other. prince andrew rose and politely
drawing room with her habitual skill. the large group, in which were
drawing room. the guests began to disperse, some without taking leave
drawing room, helped to receive and entertain the visitors. the young
drawing room, approaching now a silent, now a too-noisy group, and by a
drawing room. and, in fact, bilíbin’s witticisms were hawked about
drawing room.
drawing room.
drawing room.
drawing him down put her arm round his thin, scraggy neck.
draw breath.
drank much, and eagerly. but those who knew him intimately noticed that
dragoons. in the center, where túshin’s battery stood and from which
dragging it by the staff, ran on with the battalion. in front he saw our
dozens of soldiers, continually replaced by others, who ran from the
“do you want anything?”
“do you understand what you’re saying?” he said in a trembling
“do you think so?... really? truly?” she said, quickly smoothing her
“do you think he can last till morning?” asked the german,
“do you see?... my doll... mimi... you see...” was all natásha
“do you remember we had a talk about cards... ‘he’s a fool who
“do you remember me?” asked borís quietly with a pleasant smile.
“do you remember him?” natásha suddenly asked, after a moment’s
do you remain silent when heaven knows who permits herself to
“do you or do you not know where that will is?” insisted prince
“do you know, you are a terrible chap for all your innocent airs,”
     *do you know the proverb?
“do you know, that fat pierre who sat opposite me is so funny!” said
“do you know?” said pierre, as if suddenly struck by a happy
“do you know, mon cher,” said bilíbin following him, “i have been
“do you know,” he said at last, evidently unable to check the sad
do you know he has fallen in love with sónya?”
“do you hear how he’s walking?” said tíkhon, drawing the
dowry and take mademoiselle bourienne into the bargain. she’ll be the
downy lip was open and she was smiling joyfully. prince andrew entered
downward. when pierre came up the count was gazing straight at him, but
downwards as was his habit.
down to her neck and shoulders while nicholas was speaking.
down the wax, the seal, and the paper, with his accustomed rapidity.
down the room for a long time, no longer piercing an imaginary foe with
down the hillsides, and clouds of cannon smoke rolling, spreading,
downstairs to his own room. a quarter of an hour later the old count
down on the sofa, facing her brother. “she is quite a child: such a
down on one of the tubs, picked it up.
down on her with outstretched hands shouted, “get out!” in such a
down. one bullet and then another whistled past him. he mustered his
down on a sofa near the silver samovar, as if all she was doing was a
down on a sofa in the next room.
down, lightly touched his daughter’s hair and sat down again.
down laws for austria at schönbrunn, il faut lui faire grâce de
down in her easy chair, now taking her prayer book, now kneeling before
downcast head; and he began to pace the room, glancing occasionally at
down below, but higher up at the village of schlappanitz where napoleon
down. anna mikháylovna indicated by her attitude her consciousness of
down, and smiled affectionately.
down!”
doubt of victory, especially on this day when what is at stake is the
doubt it now. rostóv rode in the direction pointed out to him, in which
doubt filled her soul. could the joy of love, of earthly love for a
doubt, and self-derision, which appeared on his face against his will,
doubled. to this prince andrew answered with a smile that he could
do to get here.”
do this for my son—and i shall always regard you as a benefactor,”
“do this for my sake, mon cher; after all, she had to put up with a
do they look at me?” then he lifted his head, stretched his neck as
do the right thing.
do the doctors say?” asked the princess after a pause, her worn face
“do stop joking, bilíbin,” cried bolkónski.
     do, sire.”
“do promise, do promise, vasíli!” cried anna mikháylovna as he
doppelkümmel. the officers gladly gathered round him, some on their
door. while he was getting down from the carriage steps two men, who
door opened quickly and the stern figure of the old man in the white
door? oh, she is a pearl among women, princess,” he added, turning to
“do order them to form into battalion columns and go round the
door behind him and satisfied himself that there was nobody else in the
door, as though he had long expected him.
door and his expression of sleepy indifference suddenly changed to one
door, and added in a whisper so that her son should not hear, “wish me
“don’t you wecollect what bad use i made of your lessons?”
“don’t you want to? well, then, come here,” said she, and
don’t wish to let me go, i’ll stay. but i know i am no use anywhere
don’t understand. perhaps princess elizabeth and princess mary know.
don’t trouble yourself further.”
“don’t touch me,” said rostóv, drawing back. “if you need it,
“don’t touch him! you’ll startle him and then he’ll be killed.
“don’t tease! well, and what has been decided about novosíltsev’s
“don’t speak to me... i beg you,” muttered pierre hoarsely.
“don’t say that to me! i want nothing. i love you as a brother and
don’t remember borís. i don’t remember him a bit.”
don’t need it? now you shall judge between us. i always tell him: here
“don’t, natásha! what nonsense!” she said, hoping it was a joke.
“don’t mention it, general, as if i’d be so bold!” replied the
“don’t like bowwowing from my own fellows, i don’t,” growled
don’t know me. we have not met for such a long time... not since we
don’t know how to hide what i feel.” as he spoke he kept glancing
don’t know and never shall know, for the love of these men here,” he
“don’t kick up the dust, you infantry!” jested an hussar whose
“don’t joke; i mean to have a serious talk with you. do you know
don’t get promoted to a sublieutenancy.”
don’t forget to put out my new coat,” added rostóv, fingering his
don’t feel that weakness in myself as yet, i know a little person who
“don’t! don’t! what are you about?” whispered their frightened
“don’t come in,” she said to the old count who was following her.
don’t care a straw about anyone but those i love; but those i love,
“don’t, borís! you are such a diplomat that it is really
“don’t be unkind,” cried anna pávlovna from her end of the table
do not suppose me to be so bad. with my whole soul i wish to be what you
“do not let us lose any time...”
do not break your ranks on the plea of removing the wounded! let every
do next. anna mikháylovna with her eyes indicated a chair that stood
done up.
done to me?”—said her charming, pathetic, dead face.
done, the rhetor said:
done the job just as well.”
done shall be. now listen! give this letter to michael ilariónovich. *
done no harm to anyone; why must i suffer so? help me!” her look
done. have you chosen a post in which you might be of service to your
done for him! i hope that here in moscow no one will receive him, in
dominated everything else and soared above all their affected chatter.
domestic serfs were crowding in the hall, waiting to bid good-by to
dólokhov who was in the midst of the crowd forced his way to the edge
dólokhov, whom everyone in the house liked except natásha. she almost
dólokhov, who had no reason to preserve the honor of a man who was
dólokhov, who had already changed into a soldier’s gray greatcoat,
dólokhov was of medium height, with curly hair and light-blue eyes. he
dólokhov was holding the englishman’s hand and clearly and distinctly
dólokhov was a secret to no one but himself. pierre absolutely
dólokhov turned round and, again holding on with both hands, arranged
dólokhov, the bottle of rum still in his hand, jumped onto the window
dólokhov’s words into english. a thin young lad, an hussar of the
dólokhov. suddenly a cannon ball hissed so low above the crowd that
dólokhov stood frowning and did not speak. pierre jumped upon the
dólokhov still sat in the same position, only his head was thrown
dólokhov’s second, and after dinner he discussed the arrangements for
dólokhov’s reply.
dólokhov’s proposal and iogel’s ball, seemed to have grown thicker
dólokhov’s offer,” he said, articulating his friend’s name with
dólokhov smiled. “don’t trouble. if i want anything, i won’t
dólokhov slowly straightened his bent knee, looking straight with his
dólokhov, slamming down the pack of cards, put it aside and began
dólokhov’s home: on the third day he received a note from him:
dólokhov’s hands and thought, “now then, make haste and let me have
dólokhov’s hand.
dólokhov’s face.
dólokhov’s clear, cold glance met rostóv as soon as he entered the
dólokhov’s back in his white shirt, and his curly head, were lit
dólokhov pressed rostóv’s hand and burst into tears.
dólokhov, pierre saw clearly that what was said in the letter might be
dólokhov paused.
dólokhov or answering him. the footman, who was distributing leaflets
dólokhov often dined at the rostóvs’, never missed a performance at
dólokhov—now an officer—wounded in the arm, and on foot, with
“dólokhov, mary ivánovna’s son,” she said in a mysterious
dólokhov made no reply.
dólokhov looked round but did not say anything, nor did the mocking
dólokhov looked at pierre with clear, mirthful, cruel eyes, and that
dólokhov hurriedly interrupted.
dólokhov himself during his convalescence spoke to rostóv in a way no
dólokhov has been degraded to the ranks and bezúkhov’s son sent
dólokhov did not answer the captain; he had been drawn into a hot
dólokhov cut him short, as if to remind him that it was not for him to
dólokhov climbed carefully and slowly through the window and lowered
dólokhov began to deal seriously. oh, how rostóv detested at that
dólokhov, an officer of the semënov regiment, a notorious gambler and
dólokhov, and words of honor?... all nonsense! one might kill and rob
dólokhov and looked sorrowfully at him. denísov, rostóv, and
dólokhov.
dólokhov.
dolls and who was still having lessons.
dolgorúkov was still insisting that the french had retreated and had
dolgorúkov to the emperor.
dolgorúkov, the victor at wischau, was sent with savary to negotiate
dolgorúkov, one of the warmest advocates of an attack, had just
dolgorúkov, looking round at bilíbin with a smile.
dolgorúkov laughed merrily.
dolgorúkov; and though you may not know it, the fact is that now
do it.”
“do i remember nicholas?”
doing!” said the officer and rode off.
doing right. anna mikháylovna nodded approvingly. again pierre fell
doing a little—though i did very little and did it very badly? what
does she bother me?” and she added, turning to véra, “you’ll
doesn’t make a mess of things!”
doesn’t have intrigues nowadays? why, if he was so jealous, as i see
does not quite see it; more particularly as it is he and his corps who
does not produce the slightest stir—a blind man has left it. there are
does not even attempt to hide its artificiality) of a man who is
doctor with a bow and approached them silently and with a look of
doctor who had entered the hall after him (they had met at the last post
doctor’s wife, who was calling him her deliverer, and recalling with
doctor’s wife.
doctor and expecting another for whom they had sent to town, they had
“do come.”
do?”
“dmítri,” said rostóv to his valet on the box, “those lights are
dmítrievna’s deep voice suddenly inquired from the other end of the
dmítrievna produced no less impression by slight exertions—the least
dmítrievna.
dmítri, and several acquaintances, and the countess reread the letter
dmítri, a man of good family who had been brought up in the count’s
divine saviour has left for our guidance here below. let us try to
disturbed.
distrust in bolkónski’s emphatic opinion yet not feeling able fully
distressed that his stout and clumsy body took up so much room and doing
distressed, and breathed painfully, but could not restrain the wild
distraught yet angry expression on the faces of these two men, who
distorted out of all likeness to his former self, and the flourishing of
distinguished him from everyone else in that drawing room.
distinguished dignitary and a swiss who had formerly been tutor at the
distinguished air which inspired respect. princess anna mikháylovna
distinguish a mounted man from one on foot. napoleon, in the blue cloak
distinctness.
distinctly, but as often happens had not understood a word of what they
distinctions which may infringe equality. fly to a brother’s aid
distant, most intimate, memories rose in his imagination: he remembered
distance where no one had been before him. bagratión called to him from
distance that allowed every softly spoken word to be heard, followed
distance, but down the hill before him. “it’s the french!”
distance and puckering the skin above his left eye, “malgré la haute
dissipated life of his son anatole, the son whom they were planning to
dissatisfied with him, and also that at the emperor’s headquarters
dissatisfied, interrupted by another, an unfamiliar voice. from the
dissatisfaction and reproach. “old though he may be, he should not, he
disrespectful manner of the exhausted clerk, the fact that the clerk and
dispute with the french grenadier. they were naturally talking about the
dispute.
“dispositions for an attack on the enemy position behind kobelnitz and
dispositions...”
disposition of the forces, so as to know his bearings should he be sent
disposed to treat the young heir in the most friendly and flattering
displease you. however,” he added rising, “you know my name and
dispatch? you know everything.”
disorganized, i stopped in the road and thought: ‘i’ll let them
disordered. the french cannon did not reach there and the musketry fire
disorder and was retreating upon the kiev grenadiers. prince bagratión
dismounted. he gave the reins to a cossack, took off and handed over his
dismissed from here; therefore, you can stay and go with us wherever our
dismal influence of cannon balls flying from the french batteries
disheveled head from the hot pillow.
disgrace the whole regiment? disgrace the whole regiment because of one
disgrace such as that of ulm, or to utter destruction. but to forestall
discuss so minutely and acutely all the recent european military and
disconcerted. the sight of the discomposure of that old man of the world
discipline, if you allow a subordinate to address you like that!’ it
discipline and zeal in the service. he brought with him into our
disbelieved both the princess’ hints and the letter, but he feared
disastrous was about to happen.
disapprovingly, but in whispers and as a great secret.
disappeared he noticed that the eyes of all in the room turned to him
disagreeable tone to prince hippolyte who was blocking his path.
dirty feather bed on the top of the chest, crumpling her gauzy pink
“directly!”
direction toward the valley and disappearing one after another into
direction of the conflagration. as if urging each other on, the soldiers
directing the march rode backward and forward between the carts. their
directed to—pierre and hélène. prince vasíli mimicked the sobbing
direct descent and ascent to the brook separating us from schön
dip. prince andrew, being always near the commander in chief, closely
diplomats who are esteemed because they have certain negative qualities,
diplomats, evidently had its own interests which had nothing to do with
diplomatist fresh from berlin with the very latest details of the
diplomatist?” asked prince andrew after a momentary silence.
diplomatic discretion tormented him, and he was happy to have in prince
diplomatic career in comparison with pierre’s happiness. the old
din of shouting more incessant. soldiers floundering knee-deep in mud
dinner,” cried several voices. “we’ll take you in hand.”
dinner, but providing it and serving it all up, that’s not their
dinner at the rostóvs’?”
dinner and looked about, blinking and scowling, or, with fixed eyes and
dinner and at other times, when as if tired of everyday life he had felt
dinner all who came “to congratulate.” the countess wished to have
dinner.
dining room where his daughter-in-law, princess mary, and mademoiselle
dim, but definite and in the concise form in which he imagined himself
digested his sufferings alone.
difficulty out of the front door.
difficulty.
difficulty.
difficulty.
difficult to imagine happier people, and that god only knew what would
difficulties had told nicholas that this was all he could let him have
difficult for artillery and cavalry to retire. prince andrew took
different tones. rostóv reined in his horse, whose spirits had risen,
different one from that which he had ridden at the review, and bending
different from themselves and from everyone else, expected great things
different from that of its elders which is often insincere, nicholas
different companies did not get mixed. but our left—which consisted
different, and better, pierre than he had been in petersburg.
differed only in that one had a little mole on her lip which made her
“dieu sait quand reviendra.” hummed the prince out of tune and, with
“dieu sait quand reviendra. go to the dining room.”
“dieu! mon dieu!” muttered anna pávlovna in a terrified whisper.
“‘dieu me la donne, gare à qui la touche!’’ * they say he was
did you come here?”
did this and that, all would be well; and he did what was demanded of
did they not interest him, but he took no notice of them and at once
did that day. but no sooner had natásha finished her barcarolle than
didst thou, and why did the whole world, conceive the idea of the
did still harder work on their own land. he did not know that the priest
did she not show any trace of coquetry, but on the contrary she even
“didn’t i tell you,” she went on, turning reproachfully to
did novosíltsev get? none. the english have not understood and cannot
did not wish to confess.
did not wish to, believe that.
did not want or could not carry away with them. austrian column guides
did not wait to be called. the shapely figure of the fair-haired
did not suit her faded features, always played round her lips expressed,
did not see you.”
did not let it out of her hands. the tutors came, and the nurses, and
did not let him and, on the other, pierre himself feared to begin to
did not interest her—or by a silent look and smile which more palpably
did not, for instance, say to himself: “this man now has influence, i
did not even make him a curtsy. she fixed her eyes on him in amazement,
did not draw closer to sónya, but rather drifted away from her. she was
did not calm her excitement. suddenly her door opened softly and her old
did not, and do not, in the least care about that scoundrel of a clerk
did neither: a look of animosity appeared on his face and the other
did i come here?” he wondered.
did, especially toward evening when he had emptied his second bottle; he
dictated the dispositions in german, and now, much exhausted, he arrived
diamonds, she passed between the men who made way for her, not looking
devoured him with his eyes, drawing himself up obsequiously, and from
devotion to the sovereign, rostóv pictured to himself an enemy or a
devoid of any foundation. prince bagratión turned to the old colonel:
“devil take them!” he muttered, and after listening to the verbal
“devil take ‘em!” he muttered, while his head was still covered by
details of his disaster he understood that half the campaign was lost,
detail! no, my dear fellow, no conditions better than our present ones
detachment no one knew anything of the general position of affairs. they
detachment, moved from the place where it had spent the night, advancing
destruction of the prussian army at jena and auerstädt and the
     destroyed, and you find that a cause for jesting!”
destiny of our adored monarch. he will save europe!”
despite the weakness of age, which had become particularly noticeable
despite the general’s presence were talking loudly and gesticulating.
“despite my great respect for old kutúzov,” he continued, “we
despite count bezúkhov’s enormous wealth, since he had come into an
desperation slammed the door with all her might.
desperate attack just to punish him—rostóv. then he imagined how,
despair, not knowing where to or why he was now riding.
despair at failing in a scripture examination, his borrowing money from
desirous of hiding her adoration for hélène and inclined rather
desire to show his friend as soon as possible that he was now a quite
desire to do good to his neighbor.
descriptive part of the letter. “and what a soul! not a word about
description. the old man began to sing, in the cracked voice of old age:
description of the last petersburg fete she addressed her brother:
descent lit up, and facing it a black knoll that seemed as steep as a
descending the valley. that moment of moral hesitation which decides
derision. “i ought to know the emperor by now, after the times i’ve
“dere has neffer been a gase,” a german doctor was saying to an
depth of his heart. in one place the peasants presented him with bread
depressing and unsolved problem.
depressed, “i shall be only too glad if you relieve me of that young
deprecating expression of a dog when it rapidly but feebly wags its
depraved woman,” he repeated, “but dared not admit it to myself.
depraved ideas of these days. i said so even at the time when everybody
depends on your decision. never mind me!”
departure hélène returned to petersburg, she was received by all her
denísov, with sparkling eyes and ruffled hair, sat at the clavichord
denísov with his voice and mustache, and telyánin and all that affair
denísov, who had settled down by the roadside with a flask and some
denísov were his worst enemy, firmly fixed his eyes directly on his
“denísov! we’re here! he’s asleep,” he added, leaning forward
denísov was shown to the room prepared for him, and the rostóvs all
denísov was looking at her with enraptured eyes.
denísov, to rostóv’s surprise, appeared in the drawing room with
denísov threw both pillows on the floor. the purse was not there.
denísov. “they keep dwagging the wegiment to and fwo all day. if they
denísov’s voice from the next room.
denísov’s short stature not noticeable and he looked the fine fellow
denísov’s new cloak and saddlecloth.
denísov smiled, took out of his sabretache a handkerchief that diffused
denísov’s horse, bedouin, was in debt all round, to his comrades and
denísov’s favorite barcarolle. natásha was preparing to sing.
denísov’s face puckered still more.
denísov screwed up his face and pointing over his shoulder with his
denísov sat gloomily biting his mustache and listening to the
denísov’s a fine fellow. but that’s all nonsense. the chief thing
denísov remained silent and did not move, but occasionally looked with
denísov raised his head, coughed, and made no answer.
denísov nice?” she asked.
“denísov, let him alone, i know who has taken it,” said rostóv,
denísov joined nesvítski.
denísov glanced at rostóv.
denísov gave no answer.
denísov galloped up to him.
denísov frowned and was about to shout some reply but stopped.
denísov first went to the barrier and announced: “as the
“denísov, don’t make fun of it!” cried rostóv. “it is such a
denísov, denísov! we’re almost there!”
denísov bent over her hand and she heard strange sounds she did not
denísov began to laugh.
denísov, and now moscow memories—and he again hurriedly opened his
denísov also came back and stayed with them. the first half of the
denísov?”
denísov.
    * denísov.
“demosthenes, i know thee by the pebble thou secretest in thy golden
demand satisfaction of his regimental commander?”
demanded that he should submit. feeling himself in their power, he
demanded.
delivers its teaching not in words only but also by other means, which
(delivered by the french alone) was still to be heard from numerous
delight. so you still love me, my romantic julie? separation, of which
delight of frenzy. he flung down the slab, broke it, and swooping
delightful to see.”
“delightful!” said bolkónski. “but i have come to you, prince,
delicate dark down was just perceptible, was too short for her teeth,
deliberately spoken word. it was evident that kutúzov himself listened
deliberately so that everyone could hear:
delay and advised waiting for something else before advancing had been
dejection and hopelessness)—at any rate, pierre longed with his whole
definite idea of her, he turned away and addressed michael ivánovich.
defile through narrow village streets when we are marching against the
deferential young man who had entered. “bring me...” he reflected
defense of vienna was no longer to be thought of. instead of an
defense—as much as to say: ‘heaven is with us, but heaven help you
defending us—doing it very badly, i think, but still he is defending
defective commissariat, the treachery of the pole przebyszéwski and of
defection, ran at a trot, panting to catch up with his company. a cannon
defeat, there were many circumstances confirming the unfavorable rumors
defeated. a week after the gazette report of the battle of austerlitz
deep wrinkles would crease his cheeks. his small, deep-set eyes always
deeply.
deepest where the land lies lowest.
deeds, and while dying he expressed the love his actions had proved.
declined: i have my daughters to consider.”
declares in ze manifessto zat he cannot fiew wiz indifference ze danger
declared, was extraordinary and had achieved miracles of valor. the
declared that he will leave it to the french people themselves to choose
decide, my dear, good, gentle marie, whom i have always loved as a
decided to send the letters and money by the grand duke’s courier to
decided to play until that score reached forty-three thousand. he
decided that day, but that they also knew what she thought about it. she
decided now or never. she lowered her eyes so as not to see the gaze
decidedly lost bearings, you know that a letter was received from him
de châle, but at this last ball only the écossaise, the anglaise, and
decently here,” continued telyánin. “now then, let me have it.”
december, nothing was said about the war and the last battle, as
deceived you. let us go to mamma.”
deceitful german, whom he would not only kill with pleasure but whom
de beaucoup de mérite), a newly appointed maid of honor and her mother,
death,” thought bolkónski.
death’s head. the stranger sat without stirring, either resting or, as
death, is here above me and around... another instant and i shall never
dear. we will see how tarás distinguishes himself today. he says count
dear, there’s friendship for you,” he repeated. “he’s joining
dear sir—took on yourself responsibility for the guidance of a young
“dear princess, i beg and implore you, have some pity on him! je vous
“dear me! then what are you up to now?”
“dear me!” said rostóv.
“dear me!” said his father, who was in a specially good humor. “i
dear, merry child. i have grown so fond of her.”
“dear me, how you have changed!”
“dear me, can i have forgotten? no, i remember thinking that you kept
dear invalid?” said she, as though unaware of the cold offensive look
dear general, i am engaged with rice and cutlets, look after military
dear fellow!” and for some unknown reason tears suddenly filled his
“dearest,” said the little princess after breakfast on the morning
“dearest, i’m afraid this morning’s fruschtique *—as fóka the
‘dearest foe! flower of the austrian army, hero of the turkish wars!
“dearest... and me!”
“dear doctor,” said she, “this young man is the count’s son. is
“dear, dear! just look at her!” exclaimed the countess as she
“dear, dear! but still tell him to come to the club—it will all blow
“dear countess, what an age... she has been laid up, poor child ...
dear boy,” and he drew pierre’s arm downwards, “it is simply a
dear and precious friend, your letter of the 13th has given me great
dear and precious friend, how terrible and frightful a thing is
dead or wounded horses and harnessing fresh ones, and shouting in his
dead. all that he saw and heard seemed to confirm this terror.
day we are keeping. but mind you come to dinner or i shall be offended,
day was mapped out, the prince rested and the princess played the
day until then, but he could no longer do it. he could not, any more
days with her, asked her to sleep in her room, and often talked with her
days was still thin—moved. his gleaming eyes were fixed intently on
days’ march and the enemy’s outposts after a brief interchange
day,” said the visitor. “what a charming child,” she added,
days.”
day... natásha, what have i done to deserve it?...”
day in moscow. all denísov’s moscow friends gave him a farewell
day he is sensible, well educated, and good-natured, and the next he’s
day he had lost. he was happy as a lover when the longed-for moment of
day before, he wished to do what the young man wanted. having been sent
daughter were having one not less important. natásha came running to
daughter. she lowered her head and was ready to burst into tears.
daughter’s happiness.
daughter’s face that it was only mischief, she shook a finger at her
daughter of prince vasíli, but visualized her whole body only veiled
    * daughter of matthew.
daughter.)—“my dear boy... lëlya... i am very pleased.” (his
daughter is so young, and i thought that, as my son’s friend, you
daughter-in-law, “but she need not make a fool of herself, she’s
daughter got up to go and the two young men rose to let them pass.
daughter, entered the drawing room, their dresses rustling.
daughter, but for a minister! for me, there are no ministers!”
daughter, and while he laughed the expression on his face clearly said:
daughter and placing an arm on the back of the chair on which she sat,
daughter.
daughter!”
dashing young hussar!
darted in and stopped short in the middle of the room. it was evident
darted forward at every word or gesture of the commander in chief,
“darling denísov!” screamed natásha, beside herself with rapture,
dark... steady!” he cried to his fidgeting horse.
darkness. “why not?... it might easily happen,” thought rostóv,
darkness, was suddenly lit up by a new brightness, full of significance.
darkness, the man paused, then moved with cautious steps toward the
dark hairs were already showing on his upper lip, and his whole face
dark-haired man. this was the celebrated petersburg doctor, lorrain.
dark corner. and this someone was he—the devil—and he was also this
dark and the glow of two conflagrations was the more conspicuous. the
daren’t say so. it will be as i said at the beginning of the campaign,
dared to treat márya dmítrievna in this fashion.
dared complain, i who am deprived of all who are dear to me? ah, if
danube, marching on us, you, and your lines of communication.”
danube covered with pine forests, with a mystic background of green
dangers. during these wanderings, pierre noticed that he was spoken
dangerous.
danger. “i am convinced that we russians must die or conquer,” he
dancing master) gave for his pupils during the holidays.
dancers do, natásha, rising energetically from her heels to her toes,
dancer, but smiling as only happy girls of fifteen can smile. when
dancer, and one of the best matches in the city.
dance) began to sound, all the doorways of the ballroom were suddenly
damned fool!” cried denísov, not pronouncing his r’s. “such ill
d’affaires.
cynically dólokhov had praised his wife’s beauty to him and from that
cut!”
curving her arms, natásha held out her skirts as dancers do, ran back
curtain flapping and blew out the candle with its chill, snowy draft.
curtain aside and for some time his frightened, restless eyes could not
current of his thoughts, “that anatole is costing me forty thousand
curly head to her knees and made the whole room ring with her laughter.
curious to know what was going to happen and what would be revealed to
curious embarrassment among some of those present. sónya, dólokhov,
cup of vodka for the men from me,” he added so that the soldiers
cupboards, and little tables. the quilt of a high, white feather bed was
cunning smile, as if flattered at being made the subject of zherkóv’s
cry. prince andrew evidently felt ill at ease, but to the two women
cry or to laugh. prince andrew shrugged his shoulders and frowned, as
crying. sónya tried to lift her head to answer but could not, and
crying.
cry. “i need five hundred rubles, and have only one twenty-five-ruble
crush the contemptible detachment that stood before him.
crushed, but angry and working unnaturally, she saw that hanging over
crowd, they had got wedged in at the approach to the dam and, jammed in
crowd of soldiers. “it can’t be an attack, for they are not moving;
crowding around the dams and banks of the ponds near the village of
crowd had to wait.
crowded together close to his wheels and his horses. “what a fellow!
crowded round a pockmarked, broad-shouldered sergeant major who, tilting
cross the lech, we can cross the danube, throw ourselves on his line
cross it and ride over the black field up the hillside. to keep to the
crossing a road they descended a steep incline and saw several men
crossed the road, and began riding up the hill at a gallop toward the
crossed the ballroom, pointing to natásha.
crossed one on the other on her breast, and to him, too, her face seemed
crossed himself and kissed the icon. there was a look of tenderness, for
criticism and was about to reply, when the expected footsteps were heard
critical moment the courier who carried the news of our victory at
crimson float on the surface of that milky sea of mist. the whole french
criminal,” came into pierre’s head, “and from their point of
cried her eyes out,” she said, growing more and more lively.
cried at each shot: “fine! that’s good! look at it... grand!” the
“crew, to your guns!” commanded the officer.
cream.”
creaks or makes more noise than it should, and hastens to check the
creaking of her corset as she moved. he did not see her marble beauty
crackling of wood fires near and afar, merged into one tremulous rumble.
crack and there was a glimpse of something blue, of ribbons, black hair,
coyness and reserve of manner, she reminded one of a pretty, half-grown
cowshed nor rostóv back with his platoon from foraging for hay had any
“cover yourself!” even denísov cried to his adversary.
cover of the small box, and assumed his usual tranquil and impenetrable
covered with melting snow, the frost having begun to break up during the
covered this movement of the transport and of the whole army, had to
covered his eyes with his hand and pressed von toll’s hand.
     * cousinhood is a dangerous neighborhood.
“cousinage—dangereux voisinage,” * she added.
courts only strengthened his desire to belong to that higher world.
courtierlike quickness and tact habitual to her, anna pávlovna
course.” perhaps he did not really think this when he met women—even
course of events in the forthcoming action in broad outline. he
courage, so he drew himself up and looked around him merrily; then it
courage. next he thought that his enemy would send the squadron on a
courage, my angel.” she kissed lise and was about to leave the room.
courage had it not been that just then they heard the rattle of musketry
“courage, courage, my friend! he has asked to see you. that is
   courage conquest guarantees;
courage, but she looked straight into his handsome face as it came near
courage and endurance—acknowledged even by the enemy—with which the
courage. 6. generosity. 7. the love of death.
couple of words with him, pierre felt unable to disappoint him.
couple. in the intervals of the dance the count, breathing deeply, waved
count,” yet ashamed to call him “father.”
count, with playful ceremony somewhat in ballet style, offered his
count tolstóy, who had ridden out to the battlefield with others in
count’s visitors settled themselves, some in the two drawing rooms,
count’s services, his request would be granted?...”
count’s niece, entered with a cold, stern face. the length of her
“count...” said telyánin drawing nearer to him.
count,” said berg, lighting his pipe and emitting rings of smoke.
countryside—“see, our infantrymen have already got there. look there
countrymen. thanks for the fire—we’ll return it with interest,”
country do we get any rest? theatricals, hunting, and heaven knows what
“count rostóv asks you to come to dinner today,” said he, after a
“count rostóv.”
count rostopchín, valúev, and narýshkin. rostopchín was describing
count never be able to find out whether all measures had been taken for
count, money and all things necessary for the uniform and equipment
count markóv? count markóv was the only man who knew how to handle
count markóv, and prince vyázemski—did not show themselves at the
“count lichtenfels was here this morning,” bilíbin continued,
count is very fond of pierre, looked after his education, and wrote to
“count ilyá rostóv’s son?” asked dolgorúkov.
count ilyá rostóv separately, as the organizer of the banquet. at that
count ilyá rostóv, hurried and preoccupied, went about in his soft
count. he has, no doubt, forgotten it and will wish to destroy it.
countess with a gentle smile, looking at borís and went on, evidently
countess, who sat holding in one hand the snuffbox with its portrait and
countess” to have a rest, but remembering something else of
“countess...” said denísov, with downcast eyes and a guilty face.
countess rostóva, with her daughters and a large number of guests, was
countess rostóva’s carriage in which they were seated drove over the
“countess natásha,” answered denísov.
countess. “i have never seen a handsomer man.”
“countess, i have done w’ong,” denísov went on in an unsteady
countess’ house.
countess. her son’s growth toward manhood, at each of its stages,
countess had not yet come. but now steps were heard at the door, steps
countess’ gigantic footman in his bass voice, entering the drawing
“countess apráksina, poor thing, has lost her husband and she has
countess.
countermarches, things of which i understand nothing; and the day
counterattack. if they attack our center we, having the center battery
countenances became calm; soldiers and officers greeted him gaily, grew
countenance bonaparte, and to cause me, and us in general, annoyance and
countenance.
“count!... don’t ruin a young fellow... here is this wretched money,
“count! count!” shouted berg who ran up from the other side as eager
count coming out from the dining hall into the anteroom, and he added:
count bezúkhov’s distress some fifteen times.
count bezúkhov he did not let go his hold of the lad. he had the air of
count, and having kissed his wife’s hand he went back to his study.
count against him, he nevertheless on the day of his arrival went to
count.
councilor of state, and insisted on the young man accompanying him to
council, he remained in the room.
could reach, there were the rattle of wheels, the creaking of carts
could not think of it without tears, and did not know which had behaved
could not scream like that—came from the bedroom. prince andrew ran to
could not say with certainty whether the attack had been repulsed or his
could not reply.
could not remember what it was that people say. he looked at her face.
could not possibly be, and so did not deliver the order.
could not move it. he smashed a pane.
could not help seeing these people, took any notice of them. “it seems
could not break away from her, and that though it would be a terrible
could not bear her look but turned away with a sob.
could no longer be averted but was taking its course independently of
could hear the footstep of someone in thick felt boots, and a voice that
could hear. “i thank you all! god be praised!” and he rode past that
could have the effrontery to continue firing from four quite undefended
could have been devised. this combination of austrian precision with
could get more rewards by doing nothing on the staff, and had succeeded
could disclose it to me.”
could clearly distinguish their bandoliers, red epaulets, and even their
could be seen, and in three places to left and right the french troops
could be heard. it was there prince andrew thought the fight would
could be heard above the three hundred others. he nearly wept. “to the
could be felt, but the nearer prince andrew came to the french lines the
could be discerned.
coughing of the musicians were heard from the gallery.
coughed, swallowed, and said in french that she was very pleased to see
cough.
cost correct, or remedy, the mistake if he had made one, so that he,
“cossack!” she said threateningly.
cossack scouts were moving. suddenly on the road at the top of the high
cossacks and then the first and second squadrons of hussars and infantry
corridor to the cabinet where the minister of war was at work. the
correct, others that it was not, and explained the false rumor that had
correct. as soon as bonaparte (who was at schönbrunn, sixteen miles
correct.
corner of his card and, instead of the six thousand he had intended,
cords on his coat and took a card with that number and tried staking the
coquettish manner in which she spoke to other men, “the vicomte has
cooked before we reach our quarters.”
cook calls it—has disagreed with me.”
convoy officer, who said rapidly: “we must halt here: the emperor
convey....”
conversation with her, when anna pávlovna called him away on the
conversation—“i often think how unfairly sometimes the joys of life
conversation in french.
conversation, gave no reply.
conversation, evidently with no wish to take part in it. he answered the
conversation but think it necessary to move about and talk, in order
conversation began prince andrew was struck by the fact that the emperor
conversation, and though anna pávlovna felt sure he would say something
conversation always related entirely to himself; he would remain calm
conversation.
conversation.
conventional things with no definite meaning, especially if
conveniently to keep them under observation, brought them into the
convalescence. dólokhov lay ill at his mother’s who loved him
contrasted with his flattering words, “on the contrary, your
contrary. we wanted liberty, but buonaparte has destroyed it.”
contrary to bilíbin’s forecast the news he had brought was joyfully
contrary one must try to make one’s life as pleasant as possible.
continuous, varied, and orderly activity. the motion of the small foot
continue their flight? despite his desperate shouts that used to seem
continued, with that gay brotherly cordiality which goodhearted young
continued, “we owe today’s success chiefly to the action of that
continued to shout.
continued to explain how by exchanging into the guards he had already
continued the vicomte. “i pity the poor husband, that little officer
continued—remembering dólokhov’s conversation with kutúzov and his
continued prince vasíli, returning to his theme, apparently not
continued. “one would think that as an artillery officer you would set
continued his work.
continued. during this interval pierre noticed that prince vasíli
continually receiving many petitioners one after another.
continually he moved on. the soldiers squeezed themselves to make way
continually glanced at prince andrew; prince andrew rubbed his forehead
continually driving round or coming upon wounded men, was out of range
continually changing from french to russian.
continually, bringing visitors to the countess rostóva’s big house on
continually and rapidly touching her rosy nether lip when necessary
    contents
contention.
contented and happy with him. i only wish you were all as happy as i
contemptuous smile, evidently prepared beforehand to meet all objections
contemptuous look that showed itself on his face.
contemplated between anatole and the little princess’ sister-in-law.
containing lessons in geometry written by himself and drew up a chair
consulting his sergeant major, zakharchénko, for whom he had great
consultations were detached from real affairs and did not link up with
consultations very valuable for the proprietor and troublesome to
constantly considered it a duty to assure pierre that he was greatly
constant composure and complacency and lack of all interests or desires,
consolation? what evil and error are there in it, if people were dying
consolation for our defeat by the memory of former victories; and the
consider yourself incapable and your life a spoiled life. you have
consider, prince andrew. two... frederick and suvórov; moreau!...
“consider my position, peter nikoláevich. were i in the cavalry i
consider it a sacred duty to fulfill that person’s wishes. do you wish
considered worthy to hear it had to come to the countess, for she
considered myself injured, and louis xvi was executed because they
considered it proper to show an interest in the general conversation by
considered it his duty to visit him and waited in the lofty antechamber
considered important.
considered him conceited, cold, and disagreeable. but among these people
considered him a criminal, and a year later they executed those who
considered an adept at french.
consider characteristic of the country—rumors of war are heard
considerable pause which made pierre feel uncomfortable.
conservatory to the place among the tubs where she had been hiding.
conservatory. there she paused and stood listening to the conversation
conservatory and pantry into the large marble dining hall, where tables
conservatories and the beauty of a flower that had just opened, and
conscious that another line of thought had sprung up, and while thinking
conscious of this unseen line, and the question whether they would cross
conscious of the warmth of her body, the scent of perfume, and the
consciousness that something great and mysterious was being accomplished
conscientiously studied the dispositions and the unfamiliar locality. he
conscience that god has implanted in our souls.”
   conquest’s joyful thunder waken,
connections... well, then, you just...”
connected in his memory with prince andrew.
“connaissez-vous le proverbe:* ‘jerome, jerome, do not roam, but
conjecture, but the colonel did not once glance at rostóv, and looked
congratulations and greetings from acquaintances that met him on all
confusion what did or did not happen?
confusion and fear that showed itself on prince vasíli’s face.
confusing their minds by dwelling on mystical books that merely awaken
confused when she saw prince andrew. he covered his face with his hands
confused him still more. he stood before bagratión with his lower
confused and ever-increasing crowds were running back to where five
confronted one another as before.
“confound you and your karl ivánich!” he took the glass with the
“confound him, he’s a fool!” said rostóv.
conform to them and follow them, and let us be persuaded that the less
conform. however painful it may be to me, should the almighty lay
confirmed in this conclusion by the fact that dólokhov left immediately
confirmed by pierre’s rupture with his wife, was the talk of society.
confidence the personality of the freemason inspired in him and his own
confidence,” said she, repeating the mistake of so many parents who
confidence, flatter him, become intimate with him, and finally make his
confidence, and love as i have for you. then i am young. mamma does
confession; he felt himself in the presence of one socially a complete
confession, communion was administered to the dying man, preparations
confess and ask for money he had no right to after giving his word of
condition! it’s very hard.”
condition, and immediately after that informed them that she had left
condition.
conclude our campaign and we can return to winter quarters, where fresh
concluded, conscious—as were others—after the words were uttered
concerning which no one could be at ease. it was the state of the
concerned with, or he wanted to give the russian special messenger that
concerned with a thought that always occupied her: “now you see if i
concentration on some one thought.
concentration of fighting at one point, and the hesitation of all the
concentrate. “there we shall encounter difficulties, and there,”
conceive a future life...”
conceit prevents your apologizing, and you wish to make the whole
comrades’ impression. every face, from denísov’s to that of the
comrade nesvítski, a tall staff officer, extremely stout, with a
comrade berg’s best wishes for success, rode to olmütz to see
composure, waiting for a display of the eccentricities his father had
composure, “now there’s this recruiting. my father is chief in
composed and printed in the hero’s honor. bagratión, on seeing the
comply. anna pávlovna arranged a group round him, inviting everyone to
completely altered. he was not rich, but would spend his last groat to
completed.
compared to the lofty, equitable, and kindly sky which he had seen and
company, your honor. i don’t know where... such bad luck!”
company, which alone had maintained its order in the wood and, having
company’s baggage wagon, piled high, leather covered, and hemmed in on
company commanders calculated and reckoned, and by morning the
company and overtook the next one.
companion, dólokhov had come straight to his house, and pierre had put
companies, crowds of whom set off to the neighboring villages, or
common sense and frank plainness of speech. márya dmítrievna was known
committed a reverse act of impoliteness. first he had left a lady before
commit murder he had restored it to the rightful king, i should have
commit crime, die, or perform deeds of highest heroism, and so he could
commissariat, and the regiment had marched some seven hundred miles.
commiseration on rostóv, who saw that túshin with his whole heart
commentaries), and resting on his elbow, began reading it in the middle.
commence the action, and wishing to avert responsibility from himself,
comme il faut, that’s a different matter; but the kurágins’ set of
comme cet individu dont vous avez fait un ami, mais pas pour vous, pas
command to the general next in seniority, count buxhöwden, having sent
command. “sergeants major!... how soon will he be here?” he asked
command of the third district, and my only way of avoiding active
command of the infantry went toward his horse with jerky steps, and
commanding both sides of the danube, so that should the enemy not
commander’s will, owing to the tact bagratión showed, his presence
commander started and bent forward, the hussar started and bent forward
commander’s back and mimicked his every movement. each time the
commanders are: herr general wimpfen, le comte de langeron, le prince de
commanders, and with a consciousness of being too late spreading through
commanders. and then that happy moment, that toulon for which he had
“commander of the third company wanted by the general!... commander to
commander of the regiment in the hollow and news that immense masses
commander in chief would otherwise be dissatisfied. on hearing this the
commander in chief’s suite. he was in a state of suppressed excitement
commander in chief’s regarding the regiment. behind kutúzov, at a
“commander in chief kutúzov?” said the newly arrived general
commander in chief here, and if all is lost it is for me to perish with
commander in chief. he interrupted him, talked rapidly and indistinctly,
commander in chief. bagratión knew that as the distance between the two
commander in chief and of his own luggage. very sinister reports of the
commander in chief.
commander, higher than and different from the others, prince andrew came
commander, but now that the commander in chief addressed him he drew
commander, awaiting the word of command. a second and a third cannon
commander among them! hm!...”
coming to us of their own accord,” incautiously remarked the little
coming out of kutúzov’s room into the waiting room with the papers in
coming from the study. the prince walked in quickly and jauntily as was
“coming, friend.”
coming for me to take me there.”
coming closer to pierre. “in token of generosity i ask you to give me
coming. and nicholas, who had vainly suffered all the dread that
coming action from dolgorúkov. he felt that kutúzov was upset
comfortably.
“come, what’s the matter, old fellow?” said nesvítski trying to
come, were all there at the appointed time.
come up to him.
come up. in that case the dragoons could successfully make a flank
“come, that’s right, count!” cried the staff captain, turning
comes from that! even then i felt it,” he thought. “i felt then that
“come over here, hélène, dear,” said anna pávlovna to the
“come on then,” cried pierre. “come on!... and we’ll take bruin
come on and will meet them with the fire of the whole battalion’—and
“come now! you with all your forces fall on the unfortunate mortier
“come now, what about your roi de prusse?”
“come now, just this one more little card!”
“come now, deal!” exclaimed rostóv.
“come nearer, come nearer, friend! i used to be the only one to tell
“come, my dear anna mikháylovna, let catiche do as she pleases. you
“come, let’s argue then,” said prince andrew, “you talk of
“come later.” and she went in, closing the door behind her.
“come, i will go with you. try to weep, nothing gives such relief as
come into the hall. prince hippolyte stood close to the pretty, pregnant
come in a moment. petrúshka!” he called to his valet: “come here,
“come if you need anything. one can at least be of use on the
come. he was alone now, except for a soldier who was sitting naked at
come... he told me himself... but still i should not cry,” and she
“come here, wostóv. let’s dwink to dwown our gwief!” shouted
“come here,” said rostóv, catching hold of telyánin’s arm and
“come, dear princess,” said mademoiselle bourienne, “just one more
“come along, our matvévna!” he said to himself. “matvévna” *
“come along!”
columns, with a high silk-curtained mahogany bedstead on one side and
columns, their bayonets glittering, were moving continuously in one
column, milorádovich’s, the one that was to take the place of
column marches... the third column marches...” and so on, read
column coming up to meet the Ápsherons.
column advanced into action.
colonel was called bogdánich) “shuts you up.”
colonel’s athletic back, his nape covered with light hair, and his red
colonel of hussars with the same order. after him the stout nesvítski
colonel of hussars who, growing more and more flushed, ate and drank so
colonel of forty to whom denísov had introduced him.
“colonel,” interrupted the officer of the suite, “you must be
“colonel,” he said, addressing rostóv’s enemy with an air of
collar and cap, went out for his usual walk. it had snowed the day
collapsed so that i don’t live at all—everything seems hateful to
coiffure, mademoiselle bourienne’s and anatole’s smiles, and the
code, but under this unwritten law. he felt now that merely by having
cock, but the elder members glanced severely at the wit, making him
coat, the traveler sat down on the sofa, leaned back his big head with
coats.
coat of arms on the table. he explained this to her with as much gravity
coachmen and footmen, who, with loud shouts, dragged his sleighs up to
coachman’s, was teasing kutúzov’s old cook whom prince andrew knew,
clutched the crupper of his saddle and, spurring his horse, galloped to
club, but met in private houses in intimate circles, and the
clouds gliding slowly across it. “how quiet, peaceful, and solemn; not
cloudless, northern, summer night. pierre took an open cab intending
clouded his mother’s face, and he smiled slightly.
cloth, which contrasted with the others. “what have you been after?
cloths.
close, was gazing with astonishment at the angry face of the princess
close to her; the red patches on her face came and went, and it was
close to her, of his breath and the smell of him, and could think only
close to her, began to whisper something.
close that the expression of his face could be seen. and the excited,
closer together and a report spread that they were ordered to halt:
closer!” she whispered.
closed his eyes, silently let mack enter his room before him, and closed
close-cropped hair, spectacles, the light-colored breeches fashionable
close by, who heard him muttering.
clock. one wheel slowly moved, another was set in motion, and a third,
cloak looking timidly at me,” he thought. “and what does she
cloak, he asked whether they wanted the count or the princesses, and,
cloak and felt boots, he went to the little princess’ apartment.
clinking of spurs were heard at the door, and the young count, handsome,
climb out of the window.
clever with véra,” said the count. “well, what of that? she’s
clerk. “the kiev grenadiers, podolian...”
clenching his small hand and striking the table with it, “and what
clear upright figures; he emptied the glass of warm champagne that was
clearness, and charm that it seemed as if it were all a lost and
clearly worded the day before, namely, that the commander in chief
clear, insolent eyes in the general’s face.
clear.
clean shirt on the feather bed with its warmed and fragrant pillows, he
cleaned pairs with spurs had just been placed by the wall. the servants
clean, and in cloth covers carefully tied with tapes.
clavichord was. “it’s no use your going to the commander in chief.
clavichord and harp. julie by general request played first. after she
clavichord.
clattering. these men pressed close to the wall to let pierre and anna
clanking his spurs, whirled rapidly round, and, striking his left heel
cities wondered at her, laughed privately at her rudenesses, and told
circumstantially and with evident satisfaction.
circumstances i may be placed. but if you want to know the truth... if
circumstances, he nevertheless delivered the definite order that the
circumstances and persons he met. of these plans he had not merely one
christian...”
“christ be with you!” kutúzov repeated and went toward his
chose and placed cards, and watched those broad-boned agile hands in the
chorus.”
choose. i give you freedom. only remember that your life’s happiness
choked him, and leaning his elbows on the window sill he began to cry,
choice has fallen. i don’t know what you will think of it, but
child’s little chair while, frowning and with trembling hands, he
children. the german tutor was trying to remember all the dishes, wines,
children,” she said, in her loud, full-toned voice which drowned all
children are the bane of my life. it is the cross i have to bear. that
childlike way through his spectacles.
childlike smile which had not once appeared on his face since he left
childish bare shoulders which after her run heaved and shook her
child in a toyshop, did not know which way to look, afraid of missing
childhood; that same julie karágina who had been at the rostóvs’
childhood and lived for years at a time. the guards had already left
childhood.
childhood.
child. “but no, it is impossible, i am too ugly,” she thought.
chief, your excellency?” said rostóv, with his hand to his cap.
chief steward wrote every year telling him of fires and bad harvests,
chief’s room.
chief’s and with the exception of prince bagratión, who declined to
chief, and our first foe, buxhöwden, is vanquished; we can now turn
chest to back than across the shoulders. he had on a brand-new uniform
chessmen with his delicate white fingers while awaiting berg’s move,
cheerful were the troops. the greatest disorder and depression had been
checked handkerchief) to illustrate the theory that all men are equals,
chattering voices had reached her from the corridor, went into princess
chasseurs.... they won’t let us pass, we are left behind and have lost
chasseurs must hold their position till reserves from the center
chasseur regiment and in the lines of the kiev grenadiers—fine fellows
“charming!” whispered the little princess, sticking the needle into
charming that only a fool would renounce such happiness.”
“charming!” said anna pávlovna with an inquiring glance at the
charming girls. every young man who came to the house—seeing those
charming age when a girl is no longer a child, though the child is not
charitable to my poor aunt who adores you. go and keep her company for
“charge!” shouted by an officer who was urging his thoroughbred to
character set encoding: utf-8
characteristically noble wrinkles of his handsome, ruddy face. he lay
character, but more so recently, since in the new reigns of paul and
    chapter xxxviii
    chapter xxxvii
    chapter xxxvi
    chapter xxxv
    chapter xxxix
    chapter xxxiv
    chapter xxxiv
    chapter xxxiii
    chapter xxxiii
    chapter xxxii
    chapter xxxii
    chapter xxxi
    chapter xxxi
    chapter xxx
    chapter xxx
chapter xxviii
    chapter xxviii
    chapter xxviii
    chapter xxviii
chapter xxvii
    chapter xxvii
    chapter xxvii
    chapter xxvii
chapter xxvi
    chapter xxvi
    chapter xxvi
    chapter xxvi
    chapter xxvi
chapter xxv
    chapter xxv
    chapter xxv
    chapter xxv
    chapter xxv
    chapter xxix
    chapter xxix
chapter xxiv
    chapter xxiv
    chapter xxiv
    chapter xxiv
    chapter xxiv
chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiii
chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
chapter xxi
chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
chapter xx
chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
chapter xviii
chapter xviii
chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
chapter xvii
chapter xvii
chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
chapter xvi
chapter xvi
chapter xvi
chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
chapter xv
chapter xv
chapter xv
chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
chapter xix
chapter xix
chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
chapter xiv
chapter xiv
chapter xiv
chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
chapter xiii
chapter xiii
chapter xiii
chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
chapter xii
chapter xii
chapter xii
chapter xii
chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
chapter xi
chapter xi
chapter xi
chapter xi
chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
chapter x
chapter x
chapter x
chapter x
chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
chapter viii
chapter viii
chapter viii
chapter viii
chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
chapter vii
chapter vii
chapter vii
chapter vii
chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
chapter vi
chapter vi
chapter vi
chapter vi
chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
chapter v
chapter v
chapter v
chapter v
chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
chapter ix
chapter ix
chapter ix
chapter ix
chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
chapter iv
chapter iv
chapter iv
chapter iv
chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
chapter iii
chapter iii
chapter iii
chapter iii
chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
chapter ii
chapter ii
chapter ii
chapter ii
chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
chapter i
chapter i
chapter i
chapter i
chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
channel. i think the expedition is quite feasible. if only villeneuve
changing unconsciously from russian to french as he went on—to explain
changing the expression of her eyes. “i am a woman, and you think we
changing his tone or attitude, “it must seem to you that everyone is
change in the expression of his fixed eyes, watched the regimental
changed!... where are the candles?... tea!...”
changed: her eyes became fixed, and then a shiver passed down her broad
chance of delay and flight when the longed-for moment comes and he is
chance, letting the seven be dealt to the right rather than to the left,
championship of the doctor’s wife in her queer trap might expose him
chair, wrapped in a powdering mantle, entrusting his head to tíkhon.
chair regardless of her governess’ remarks. after dinner, she rushed
chair, he drew up with a click of his spurs and bowed to her, natásha
chair and pacing up and down the room followed by tíkhon, who ran after
chair, and began deliberately with a smile:
“cette armée russe que l’or de l’angleterre a transportée des
certain. there’s lise, married to andrew—a better husband one would
certain, nothing at all except the unimportance of everything i
certainly should not, speak like that,” their glances seemed to say.
certainly is communicated very surely, and flows rapidly, imperceptibly,
“certainly he must be moved onto the bed; here it will be
“certainly; but about kutúzov, i don’t promise.”
ceremonious welcomes (which he knew pierre would not like), but for just
“cependant, mon cher,” he remarked, examining his nails from a
center, the reserves, and bagratión’s right flank had not yet moved,
center of the table, prince vasíli attracted everybody’s attention.
center, and secondly, to withdraw the cavalry to the other side of the
censured, should not be held to blame.
censure, but asked him not to be too hard on the poor old man. “what
celebrating awards they had received for the campaign, and made
cavalry was brought in, convoyed by a sótnya of cossacks. evidently the
cavalry in front, behind it the artillery, and behind that again the
cavalry and here he noticed a stir and signs of preparation for battle;
cautious movements of those who crowded round the invalid chair that
cause of the confusion, turned away with indifference, as if to say,
caught up the object of contention and ran into the bedroom. the eldest
catiche,” * muttered the prince, seating himself wearily on the chair
“catiche has had tea served in the small drawing room,” said prince
catherine’s day, count bezúkhov, and about his illegitimate son
catherine’s court, count bezúkhov.
     *catherine.
cathedral, and its bridge, on both sides of which streamed jostling
catching the curtain of the cot. each made the other a warning gesture
catching and their sabers clattering.
“catch hold of my arm or you’ll drop him!” he heard one of the
catches it and obeying the impulse that wheel begins to creak and joins
casket for mamma’s name day and then going home. i was so happy, so
cases only one goes wrong, but it is her fancy and mine. they have been
casement. the cold wind flapped the ends of her kerchief and her loose
cart, shouting and scolding a soldier with coarse abuse. in each of
carts, guns, artillery, and again baggage wagons and vehicles of all
carry them out, so he takes a regiment, a division—stipulates that no
carry out the count’s wishes, seeing clearly that not only would the
carrying her burden so lightly. old men and dull dispirited young ones
carry him to the dressing station.”
“carrot ices.”
carried the whole length of the table.
carried the sovereign at reviews in russia bore him also here on the
carried the sick man dispersed. anna mikháylovna touched pierre’s
carried away by passion. oh, only my poor mother...”
carriage, moved forward and, not noticing the general, looked out
carriage, her husband was adjusting his saber; prince hippolyte, under
carriage?” he asked his mother with a smile.
carriage. “get in with me,” said he to bolkónski.
carriage at full speed about an hour before along that very road and
carriage, and the solitude of the road, all had a gladdening effect on
carriage and rode up to dólokhov.
care, this was a mere stranger. glancing, however, at borís, he saw
carelessly holding in his stallion that was neighing and pawing the
carefully wrote twenty-one.
carefully stretching his neck so as not to touch the quilt, followed her
cared about; anna pávlovna observed these greetings with mournful and
care about them in so far as they are harmful or useful. and most of
cards and supper were over, but the visitors had not yet dispersed.
card, putting a small stake on it, and beginning to play.
cardinal virtues in her gave her lessons in algebra and geometry
card game he was very fond of, was that of listener, especially when he
carabineers.
cap, who had come sailing in from another room as soon as the guests
captured by the french because the enemy could not surmise that anyone
captain von toll chanced to ride to the same spot, and seeing the
captain up and down as he came up panting, slackening his pace as he
“captain túshin’s, your excellency!” shouted the red-haired,
captain, his nose growing redder as he gave a smile which showed where
“captain, for god’s sake! i’ve hurt my arm,” he said timidly.
captain and his drawn-in stomach, and mimicked his expression and pose
captain,” and he turned to a thin, dirty little artillery officer who
capitals, he still continued to live in the country, remarking that
“capital!” said prince hippolyte in english, and began slapping his
cap and smoothing his hair wet with perspiration with his plump hand,
capable of receiving it.
“can you imagine it?” and he began describing how the guards, having
can you fancy the figure he cut?...”
can without hurting others.”
can, with all the pleasures of life here. if we were in vienna it would
canvas and, scarcely able to refrain from laughing, stooped as if trying
can’t understand. i was there all the time giving orders and had only
can’t get them from anyone else. he’s not there himself, so you’ll
can’t, do what you will! how can i go and apologize like a little boy
can’t be! only to get past them quicker, quicker!”
can’t be done. and besides, if she tells mamma” (sónya looked upon
can’t bear those old men! eh?”
can say all this there,” remarked dolgorúkov.
can rush off alone in a carriage to moscow, to petersburg, to those
“can one be well while suffering morally? can one be calm in times
cannot leave the estate to pierre. pierre is illegitimate.”
cannot know him. you do not know him and that is why you are unhappy.”
cannot, disappoint them. but how will it be? i do not know, but it
cannot attain the knowledge of which you speak.”
cannon, was a small, newly constructed wattle shed from which came the
cannon balls at the french with both hands.
cannon and the crowd were dragging it out. a cannon ball killed someone
cannon aimed at me?”
cannonade was dying down, but the rattle of musketry behind and on the
can it be possible?” she thought, not daring to look at his face, but
“can i see the count?” pierre again asked.
can i retain in some degree of purity the liquid i receive.”
“can he really be going away leaving me alone without having told me
candles were relit and he was told that he would see the full light; the
candlesticks like those used in churches. two of the brothers led pierre
can both fall on his flank and pursue him over the plain between
“can a sleigh pass?” he asked his overseer, a venerable man,
canal. and there was the bear swimming about with the policeman on his
campaign. the frenchman, confusing the austrians with the russians, was
campaign is over?”
came with the news that the prince could not attend. prince andrew came
came to these balls with an air of condescension and found them most
came to the conclusion that he would not find bald hills dull either.
came to his former chief with an order from the commander of the rear
came together and crowded in the large drawing room by the door of the
came thy conception of the existence of such an incomprehensible being?
came, the pretty, fair-haired frenchwoman, mademoiselle bourienne,
came over his face. he said nothing to her but looked at her forehead
came out—wearing a velvet coat with a single star on his breast,
came naturally to her, but was now very ill-suited to her careworn face.
came márya dmítrievna and the count, both with merry countenances. the
came in from his club, cheerful and contented. nicholas, hearing him
came in.
came galloping up on a cossack horse that could scarcely carry his
came and leaned on his elbows, facing her and beside mademoiselle
came a man wearing a strange shako and a blue cloak, swarthy, sunburned,
came a letter from kutúzov informing the prince of the fate that had
“calm yourself, princess! it seems so to you because.... i assure you
“calm yourself, my dear. i will go to my father,” she said, and went
calmer.
calm, and penetrating, a look i loved so well and seem to see before me
calls.’”
calling on the principal austrian dignitaries. between four and five
calling him in a whisper.
calling him a court weathercock and an old satyr.
call him but changed her mind. “let him look for me,” thought she.
called the colonel of the regiment and said a few words to him.
called him this morning?”
called him a great man,” remarked the vicomte.
called her nephew—and playing with him.
called everyone without exception and without the slightest variation
calèche stopped in front of the regiment. kutúzov and the austrian
calamity! what a calamity!”
cahd.”
cadet, supporting one hand with the other, came up to túshin and asked
by which the total exceeded the round sum of forty-three thousand; and
by which the prince was to enter. prince andrew was looking at a large
by “what was due from the ryazán estate” prince vasíli meant
by two considerations: his wife’s guilt, of which after his sleepless
by, tried to make a joke, saying that kutúzov had evidently failed to
by those troops that they were themselves in the front line and had
by this time they were all approaching túshin’s battery, and a ball
by the whole of the count’s plump figure, in márya dmítrievna found
“by the way, your excellency, i should inform you,” he
by the way, bagratión came out on the vienna-znaim road at hollabrünn
by the softness and flexibility of her small limbs, and by a certain
by the living mass of moving infantry, váska denísov, red and shaggy,
by their redness to contrast more than usual with his gray hair. at the
by the french who had crossed the vienna bridge, and encumbered by his
by the fire. one of them stumbled.
by the disorderly movement of the russian columns, and from all
by the dim light, to which pierre had already become accustomed, he
by the commander in chief. despite the un-russian appearance of the
by the clatter of knives and forks, the voices of visitors, and the
by the amusing scene she foresaw. she drew her wool down through the
by the ammunition wagon.
by someone’s order, the battery had continued firing and was only not
by six horses at a smart trot. behind the calèche galloped the suite
“by purifying and regenerating our members we try, thirdly, to improve
by leo tolstoy/tolstoi
by kutúzov was hurriedly retreating along the danube, stopping where
by its gray dress. “but no! why did this thought never occur to me
by his home circle as the best of sons, a hero, and their darling
by his age he should have belonged to the younger men, but by his wealth
by highfalutin words, and germans by logical arguments to show them
by her husband, mortemart, the delightful prince hippolyte who had
by finding husbands for me (most of whom i don’t even know), the
by evening, the adjutants had spread it to all ends and parts of the
by borís arrived at the palace to find dolgorúkov. everyone at
by bolkónski—an adjutant of kutúzov’s, who’s a friend of mine.
by a scarlet-liveried footman that morning, ran as follows:
by anna pávlovna, was about our diplomatic relations with austria and
by a feeling of desire while stooping over the snuffbox at anna
by a far more serious matter than a desire to show his contempt for
bwicks and it’s nasty work! an attack’s pleasant work! hacking
buxhöwden’s part and an epileptic fit on bennigsen’s. but at the
buxhöwden is commander in chief by seniority, but general bennigsen
“but you must decide on something! your father expects it.”
“but you meant to stay another two days?”
“but you know the wise maxim your excellency, advising one to expect
“but you know how it all ended, don’t you? you heard of the duel?”
“but you despise me. you who are so pure can never understand being so
but would probably never even inquire and would never know that the
but won’t you come to this other table?” repeated anna pávlovna.
“but with such ideas what motive have you for living? one would sit
but why, whither, and who they were, it was impossible to make out.
“but why talk of me?... talk to me, yes, tell me about your travels
“but why do you expect that he will leave us anything?”
but which possesses qualities resembling those of the symbol.”
“but where is sónya?”
“but where do you come from not to know what every coachman in the
but when katie brought the required dress, princess mary remained
but when he reached it he found it was a road. having come out onto
      * “but what the devil was he doing in that galley?”
“but what is there to say about me?” said pierre, his face relaxing
“but what have they been up to?” asked the countess.
“but what do you mean by living only for yourself?” asked pierre,
but went on turning uselessly in the same place.
but unabashed.
button of his waistcoat.
but to help england and austria against the greatest man in the world is
but to go home alone, see his sisters, brother, mother, and father,
but those tears were pleasant to them both.
“but they say that war has been declared,” replied the visitor.
“but they heard him at the council of war and will hear him when he
“but the worst of it, gentlemen—i am giving kurágin away to
but the talk in every group was chiefly about the emperor alexander. his
but the staff officer did not finish what he wanted to say. a cannon
but the smile did not enhance véra’s beauty as smiles generally do;
but these words came like a piteous, despairing cry and an entreaty for
but the question “how?” that interested him. what the diplomatic
but the princess did not listen to him.
but the officer thrashed him because he had to get on as quickly as
but the guns remained loaded, the loopholes in blockhouses and
but the convoyman took no notice of the word “general” and shouted
“but the best of it was,” said one, telling of the misfortune of
“but that’s the grand duke, and i want the commander in chief or the
“but that’s just the same as myself—they are not others,”
“but that’s all rubbish,” natásha chattered on. “and is
“but that is my conviction, and judging by the last letter with which
“but tell me, what is he like, eh?” said prince andrew again.
“but still this does not mean that the campaign is over,” said
but shouldn’t we get the gypsy singers as well? you military men like
but she was too excited to eat anything and kept wriggling about on her
“but she’s stupid. i have myself said she is stupid,” he thought.
“but seriously,” said prince andrew, “we can at any rate say
but said, in a careless and even rude voice, that it happens to
but rostóv pulled away his arm and, with as much anger as though
but rostóv did not reply.
but remarked that besides these changes it would be necessary to go into
“but really, hadn’t i better go away?” he asked, looking kindly at
“but, prince,” said anna mikháylovna, “after such a solemn
but pierre thought it necessary to ask: “how is...” and hesitated,
but pierre continued his speech without heeding her.
but our stories are the stories of men who have been under the enemy’s
but on tuesday evening, having come to hélène’s splendid salon,
but on the left flank the columns of infantry, cavalry, and artillery,
but only changed character. the horses were replaced by others from a
but only a sort of puppet show at which the men of the day were playing,
“but one cannot delay, prince, at such a moment! consider that the
     but oh! till then i cannot live!...
but now we are all going to ——’s.”
“but now i am off at once.”
“but nothing more would come of it. there will soon be a battalion of
but not concealing the fact that she would not be distressed if they
but neither anna mikháylovna nor the footman nor the coachman, who
“but, my poor catiche, it is as clear as daylight! he will then be the
“but, my dear sir,” said nesvítski as he drew up, taking off his
“but, my dear,” said prince vasíli suddenly, clutching the little
“but, my dear princess,” answered anna mikháylovna blandly but
“but, my dear monsieur pierre,” said she, “how do you explain the
     * “but my dear fellow, with all my respect for the orthodox
but milorádovich was at that moment evidently thinking of anything
but managed meanwhile to look round repeatedly at his neighbor, the
but looked at him with a contemptuous smile, waiting for the valet to
but like a priest’s benediction, approached the general. though
butler, napkin on arm, was scanning the setting of the table, making
but joyous and eager crowd down the hill at their disordered foe.
“but joking apart,” said prince andrew, “do you really think the
“but i wish it,” he said. “i beg you—give it him!”
but it was too late. she was looking at them with an expression they
“but it must be brought to a head. the day after tomorrow will be
but it lifted all the more sweetly, and was especially charming when she
“but it isn’t?...”
but it is a beautiful voice that must be trained.” only they generally
“but it can’t be he, alone in the midst of this empty field!”
“but i remember putting it there.”
“but in what was i to blame?” he asked. “in marrying her without
“but in what position are we going to attack him? i have been at the
but in the center where the men with a flag of truce had passed that
but instead of the band a choir began singing a cantata composed by paul
but in his usual impulsive and hearty way he took borís by the hand
“but i just wish to say, to avoid misunderstandings, that you are
“but i have nothing here,” replied pierre, supposing that he was
but i have killed her, killed... she won’t get over it! she won’t
“but if you won’t accept money from me like a comrade, you will
but if the count, getting more and more into the swing of it, charmed
“but if the bridge is crossed it means that the army too is lost? it
“but if for any reason you don’t feel inclined to talk to me,”
“but i do not know, father!”
but i do not believe it. i have no right to, and can’t, believe it.”
but i am still so weak that i love my life, the meaning of which is only
“but how often i have felt proud of her, proud of her majestic beauty
“but how is it the doctor from moscow is not here yet?” said the
“but how are you to get that balance?” pierre was beginning.
but hopeless: “the sovereigns, madame... what have they done for louis
but his character...” said timókhin.
but his aim to consider, and he reached it. but tie yourself up with
but he went on naïvely looking around through his spectacles as if in
but he scowled at her angrily though also with suffering in his eyes,
“but he must be a freemason,” said he, referring to the abbé whom
but he immediately recalled his promise to prince andrew not to go
but he did not explain to himself what these new relations were.
but he could not make up his mind to take the final step. he felt
but haste was becoming imperative. cannon and musketry, mingling
but had on one of her best dresses. her hair was carefully done and her
but had never spoken to her of love. now he felt that it was inevitable,
but god will support you: you are young, and are now, i hope, in command
“but for god’s sake, be careful, you know how it may affect your
but extremely attractive.
but evidently the crisis was over and he was convalescent. prince andrew
but enough of gossip. i am at the end of my second sheet of paper, and
“but do you know, my dear, that was a capital joke,” said the count;
“but don’t hurt my little horse!” said the alsatian good-naturedly
but dólokhov did not go away; he untied the handkerchief around his
but borís spoke distinctly, clearly, and dryly, looking straight into
but borís noticed that he was preparing to make fun of berg, and
but borís... no!” (she shut her eyes.) “no! there’s nothing at
but borís again interrupted him.
“but between not recognizing him as emperor and calling him general
but before prince vasíli had finished his playful speech, pierre,
but before pierre could decide what answer he would send, the countess
but before he had finished speaking, prince andrew, feeling tears of
but before he had finished reading, a stentorian major-domo announced
“but a very kind man, prince,” said anna mikháylovna with a
but at the moment when he imagined himself calmed by such reflections,
but at the incredible boldness and smartness of this little girl who had
but at that moment the thought occurred to her that her fate would be
but at that instant a tall austrian general in a greatcoat, with the
but attacked and captured by a superior enemy force as a result of one
but at irregular intervals, and grapeshot cracked and rattled onto the
“but as you are a philosopher, be a consistent one, look at the other
but as sorrow was manifest in every smile, the sound of every word, and
but as she passed the sitting room she noticed two couples sitting,
“but as it is, i know every word she utters. she will come running to
but, as he had to say something, he began by asking her whether she was
but as a youth in love trembles, is unnerved, and dares not utter the
but a roll of volleys of musketry from the slopes of the hill before
but anna pávlovna—who was in the excited condition of a commander on
but anna mikháylovna went forward a step or two to keep her hold on the
but anna mikháylovna did not obey him.
but an hour.... tell me all you know about the will, and above all where
“but am i not too cold with him?” thought the princess. “i try
but although alpátych, frightened at his own temerity in avoiding the
but also for his skill in dealing and conversing with those in the
busy with similar peaceful affairs—near the shelter of the regimental
busy with his roast meat, hoped he had been forgotten: “didn’t
busy, and busy making his father comfortable, while evidently he,
    * “busy already?”
bustlingly searching for something.
business!”
bursts of song and music and the inconsequent but friendly prattle of
burnt his boats, and i believe that we are ready to burn ours.”
burn, i could not know by the holy spirit!”
burden to him, and bóry’s life is only just beginning....”
“buonaparte was born with a silver spoon in his mouth. he has got
buonapartes. but i warn you, if you don’t tell me that this means war,
“buonaparte?” said bilíbin inquiringly, puckering up his forehead
“buonaparte himself!... just listen to the fool, what he doesn’t
bully,” thought pierre, “to kill a man means nothing to him. it must
bullets. they reached the front, several bullets sped over them, and
built lodge close to the pond. antón, a man who had looked after prince
built in order to have a nook of one’s own in which to be quiet. and
build prince andrew could endure physical fatigue far better than many
buildings—schools, hospitals, and asylums—on all the estates
bugler, showed one common expression of conflict, irritation, and
brunette with a tender look in her eyes which were veiled by long
brows he glanced into rostóv’s eyes.
brought into wischau from our outposts. this officer was savary. the
brought into the room had vanished; and as if answering a question no
brought his snuffbox to rest and, without looking at weyrother or at
brought from italy, representing an angel with outspread wings ready to
brought at once?”
brother who prepared a seeker for entrance into the brotherhood was
brothers more worthy than he would test him and that pierre had only to
brothers, and burned with impatience to set to work with them.
brother rhetor, and awaited his further commands.
brotherly love, wagged their heads in token of their mutual affection,
“brother-instructor” as he called the grand master.
brotherhood of man,” he kept saying to himself, associating these
brotherhood has made application for you to be received into our order
brother hippolyte told me about your goings on. oh!” and she shook her
brother a small, oval, antique, dark-faced icon of the saviour in a gold
brother, and that anna mikháylovna was preparing them for it. bold as
broke up two squares, your excellency.”
broken off, the porch, and the post by the side of the pavement. he
broken leg, that lay screaming piteously beside the harnessed horses.
broken glass remained in that position without taking his eyes from the
broad cheekbones, sunken cheeks, and listless tired expressions, and
briskly from corner to corner of the room, looking straight before him
bring me such tattered and dirty notes as last time, but nice clean ones
bring him to thee, could take him by the hand and show him to thee. but
bring himself to part from his daughter and give her to a husband. the
   bring glory then to alexander’s reign
bright, sparkling blue eyes into his antagonist’s face. his mouth wore
bright. sónya ran away, but natásha, taking her brother’s arm, led
brightly upon the danube and the dark hills around it. it was calm, and
bright home, his fluffy fur coat, his quickly gliding sleigh, his
brighter and more energetic. he was slightly flushed after galloping two
brightening up.
bright and happy eyes at her sister-in-law.
bridge was at times veiled by a diaphanous curtain of slanting rain, and
bridge. sometimes through the monotonous waves of men, like a fleck of
bridge not knowing what to do. there was no one to hew down (as he
bridge nesvítski found the colonel to whom he had to deliver the order,
bridge is taken! but what is best of all,” he went on, his excitement
     * bridgehead.
bridge did not take his eyes off the women till they had passed. when
bridge, cross it, and now with their whole army are on this side of the
bridge. but this time nesvítski could not see what was happening there,
bridge because he had not brought any burning straw with him like the
brick buildings, built to plan, were being built by serfs whose manorial
breeches and arm.
breathing, her movements, her beauty. then it would suddenly seem to him
breath and beating heart he moved toward the rhetor (by which name the
breast with the other hand and to repeat after someone who read aloud
brave officer,” thought bagratión. prince andrew, without replying,
brave?”
braunau had halted half a mile from the town, waiting to be inspected
brandishing the slab.
brain—that’s all that’s left me!” and at the same time he said
braggart and his son, no doubt, is a fine specimen,” he grumbled to
brag about it, but if he stays out till morning it means he’s lost and
boy... the countess... promoted to be an officer... thank god... how
boy ran after them angrily, as if vexed that their program had been
bows and trying to escape as quickly as possible from the glances fixed
bowed his head in sign of assent and approval. he rode off at a walk to
bowed head.
bourienne, with her ribbon and pretty face, and her unusually animated
bourienne with a radiant face that said: “i know nothing, i am the
bourienne who had not yet seen her.
bourienne. when she entered with her heavy step, treading on her heels,
bourienne were already awaiting him together with his architect, who by
bourienne was often touched to tears as in imagination she told this
bourienne, unfolding her white napkin with her rosy fingers. “his
bourienne. though in the new reign he was free to return to the
bourienne’s head at the very time she was talking to anatole about
bourienne rapidly, in her pleasant mellow tones and with guttural r’s.
bourienne. princess mary felt his look with a painfully joyous emotion.
bourienne—i shall have to get rid of her. and how is it she has not
bourienne. i embrace you as i love you.
bourienne had long been waiting for a russian prince who, able to
bourienne flushed, and gave the princess a frightened look.
bourienne aroused her. she raised her eyes, and two steps away saw
boulogne expedition.
bottles of wine with him and, despite the jolting ruts across the
bottles, cloaks, and overshoes were lying about; there was a smell of
bottle. i’ll do it.... bring a bottle!”
both were silent. there were two germans and a russian officer in the
both were silent.
both laughed.
both kurágin and dólokhov were at that time notorious among the rakes
both knew, an expression thoughtful and sad. this expression in princess
both began to cry and kissed again. mademoiselle bourienne also began to
both armies should remain in position without moving. murat declared
bosom as it rose and fell.
bóry, who had only just entered a regiment of the line and was being
born, and so on. then he was again led somewhere still blindfolded,
borís with the happy smile seen on the faces of young men who have been
borís with severity. “i am glad.... are you here on leave?” he went
borís with a smile.
borís was excited by the thought of being so close to the higher powers
borís to tell them about his journey to glogau and in what state he
borís smiled circumspectly, so that it might be taken as ironical
borís smiled, as if he understood what prince andrew was alluding to
“borís,” she said to her son with a smile, “i shall go in to see
borís said no more, but looked inquiringly at his mother without taking
borís rose to meet rostóv, but in doing so did not omit to steady and
borís received no clear explanation of why it had been necessary for
borís quietly left the room and went in search of natásha. the plump
borís promised to fulfill her wish and was about to begin a
borís paused in the middle of the room, looked round, brushed a little
borís, or between you two? it’s all nonsense!”
borís made a grimace.
borís looked attentively and kindly at her eager face, but did not
borís listened attentively to each of the speakers, awaiting his turn,
borís knew nothing about the boulogne expedition; he did not read the
borís inquired what news there might be on the staff, and what, without
borís. “he wanted to thank you himself.”
borís, grown more manly and looking fresh, rosy and self-possessed,
borís followed her, smiling.
borís felt that pierre did not recognize him but did not consider
“borís, come here,” said she with a sly and significant look. “i
borís bowed politely. prince vasíli without acknowledging the bow
borís bowed again politely.
borís blushed.
borís and borís was to forward them to nicholas. the letters were from
borís also,” she went on, gaining a little strength; “he is nice...
borís.
bore almost the same smile, expressing unseemly thoughts about the
boots or overcoats and crowding round the boilers and porridge cookers.
boots between the dining and drawing rooms, hastily greeting the
boots and the clinking of spurs that came to a stop, and a respectful
book two: 1805
    book two: 1805
    book twelve: 1812
book three: 1805
    book three: 1805
    book thirteen: 1812
    book ten: 1812
    book six: 1808 - 10
    book seven: 1810 - 11
book one: 1805
    book one: 1805
    book nine: 1812
book had been sent him by someone unknown. one thing he continually
book from the high desk.
    book fourteen: 1812
book four: 1806
    book four: 1806
book five: 1806 - 07
    book five: 1806 - 07
    book fifteen: 1812 - 13
    book eleven: 1812
    book eight: 1811 - 12
bookcases with keys in the locks, the high desk for writing while
bonaparte was anathematized and in moscow nothing but the coming war
bonaparte, there is a difference,” remarked bolkónski.
bonaparte, ‘that your majesty should be received and treated in my
bonaparte, that they desire to see prince auersperg, and so on. the
bonaparte’s side.”
bonaparte’s new triumph, tomorrow’s levee and parade, and the
bonaparte’s adjutant rode full gallop with this menacing letter to
bonaparte like? how did he impress you?”
bonaparte, having come up at a gallop, stopped his horse.
“bonaparte has said so,” remarked prince andrew with a sarcastic
“bonaparte...” began dólokhov, but the frenchman interrupted him.
bonaparte, and how badly the latter would fare now, especially if the
bonaparte!”
bolkónski, wishing to profit by his friendliness and obtain for himself
bolkónski, who spoke with suppressed agitation.
bolkónski was invited everywhere, and had to spend the whole morning
bolkónski, very modestly without once mentioning himself, described the
bolkónski, turning still paler, pushed him away with an angry look and
bolkónski took the opportunity to go in to get some details of the
bolkónski, the little princess’ husband. he was a very handsome young
bolkónski that the emperor desired to give him an audience. the emperor
bolkónski shrugged his shoulders.
bolkónski referred to anatole as a “pupil”) “for the sake of my
bolkónski recognized prince repnín whom he had met in petersburg
bolkónski, opposite which hung another such frame with a badly painted
bolkónski noticed the hussar’s state of mind, and it amused him. with
bolkónski in order to arrange a match for him with the daughter of that
“bolkónski!” he whispered, his voice trembling from a consciousness
“bolkónski! bolkónski!... don’t you hear? eh? come quick...” he
bolkónskaya, very pretty and rosy, though rather too plump for her age.
bold, tall, close handwriting.
boldly, with saucy gaiety, confident that her prank would be taken in
boldly, “if you wish to refuse one who is not only a brilliant and
bold forehead that bent over her hand and answered his question by
boguchárovo lay in a flat uninteresting part of the country among
bogdánovna advised prince andrew to leave the room.
bogdánovna.
bogdánich was a brick: he told you you were saying what was not true.
bogdánich knows how things are done.”
body was strikingly out of proportion to her short legs. prince vasíli
body. drowsiness was irresistibly mastering him, but he kept awake by
bodice, with black curls tossed backward, thin bare arms, little legs
blushing—“of asking the commander in chief. he has had a letter from
blushing and dropping her eyes.
blushing:
blushing.
blush.
blue-striped feather bed and hugging her friend. with an effort sónya
blue mountains beyond the river, the nunnery, the mysterious gorges, and
blood was gushing from its leg as from a spring. among the limbers lay
blood rush to his heart. “but where and how will my toulon present
blood rush to his heart and had again to get up and move about and break
blood. on seeing this, pierre moved forward with his breast toward the
blood on it. “ah, here are people coming,” he thought joyfully,
blood from it was streaming over his greatcoat as from a bottle. he had
blocking the way for everyone. the countess tried to make him talk,
blockhead!”
blissful face “like a vewy devil,” as denísov expressed it.
blinked, went red, got up and sat down again, struggling with himself
blindfolded) questioned him as to who he was, when and where he was
bleeding head and no cap was being dragged along by two soldiers who
bleeding hand with a handkerchief tied round it) “and i remained at
bleed him and patch him up. he will drag about as a cripple, a burden to
blame. the troops meanwhile stood growing listless and dispirited. after
black figures of hussars, but in the distance was still the same misty
blackest ingratitude—in this house...”
black-agate eyes at the frightened and happy natásha.
biting her underlip. at sight of pierre her expression showed an
bit and i’ll get round him.... listen! i’ll take your bet tomorrow,
bilíbin), what he had read began to interest him more and more. when he
bilíbin was now at army headquarters in a diplomatic capacity, and
bilíbin was a man of thirty-five, a bachelor, and of the same circle as
bilíbin smiled and the wrinkles on his face disappeared.
bilíbin’s letter which was written in french. he read without
bilíbin’s house thinking out a letter to his father about the battle
bilíbin liked conversation as he liked work, only when it could be
bilíbin. “it’s not treachery nor rascality nor stupidity: it is
bilíbin introduced him to the others.
bilíbin came out to meet him. his usually calm face showed excitement.
bilíbin, “as you know, my dear prince, i never leave headquarters. i
bilíbin and the rest of “ours” burst out laughing in hippolyte’s
big people i write a note: ‘princess so-and-so desires an interview
bezúkhov’s house that night had gathered to fortify themselves.
bezúkhova. but you will understand that i have no desire for the post.
beyond ceremonies and meaningless prayers and are now instructed in
be worthy of her. and that is what we shall see.”
bewildered look and passed by without a word. a woman rushed out and
bewildered him with fine words, and he is so flattered by his rapidly
be virtuous. not a trace of his former doubts remained in his soul. he
be very glad to do all in my power both for you and for this dear young
between three and four o’clock in the afternoon prince andrew, who
between them gleamed blue infinity. he did not turn his head and did not
between his acts as a private person, as a general, and as an emperor.
between himself and that lofty infinite sky with the clouds flying over
between forefinger and thumb, and an old servant, bending over from
better not look,” he thought, but having reached the bushes he glanced
better during those awful moments—the father who so remembered
betraying her sympathy for the “daredevil,” as she called dólokhov.
betraying by this desperate and provocative proposition his extreme
betrayal of the bourbon cause. the sovereigns! why, they are sending
be thus boldly, provocatively happy.” “and what nonsense all this is
be they what they might.
be the best way.”
be talked over at length. at last the conversation gradually settled on
bestowed on véra by nicholas, was considered very stinging), “and
best of officers could do in his position, he was in a state akin to
best families in russia, but she was poor, and having long been out of
beside whom sat only one elderly lady, who with her thin careworn face
beside the old prince.
beside themselves over there and one can’t make anything out.”
beside the farthest of the four unlimbered cannon. before the guns an
beside the bed. pierre obediently sat down, his eyes asking if he were
“besides,” thought he, “all such ‘words of honor’ are
besides this refined selection of society anna pávlovna’s receptions
“besides that, peter nikoláevich, by exchanging into the guards
“besides how can i ask the emperor for his instructions for the right
besides! but don’t let’s talk about me; tell me how you managed
beside him. this hussar, with a grave face and without a smile or a
beside him. “that must be the enemy’s camp!”
beside him and was listening naïvely to his words.
beside hélène. “this happiness is not for you,” some inner voice
be shaken in her determination.
be seen from the hill on the opposite bank but was not yet visible from
berg was mentioned, by those who did not know him, as having, when
berg took the opportunity to ask, with great politeness, whether, as was
berg smiled joyously. the count, followed by his guests, went into the
berg put on the cleanest of coats, without a spot or speck of dust,
berg as much as you please,” she finished quickly.
berg always spoke quietly, politely, and with great precision. his
be ready to fulfill his will.” with this consoling thought (but
“be quiet, backbiter!” said dolgorúkov. “it is not true; there
be parted from her) would be gained, so pacifying himself with this
be overthrown by the angel whom it has pleased the almighty, in his
be out of your way! do go somewhere, anywhere... to the devil!” he
be. of the four crystal glasses engraved with the count’s monogram
bent arm to márya dmítrievna. he drew himself up, a smile of debonair
beneath his smile rostóv saw in him the mood he had shown at the club
beneath his dignity to give me satisfaction, then...”
bending his forehead to hers just touched it, and pressed her hand so
bending forward in his armchair he said: “le roi de prusse!” and
below, where the fight was beginning, there was still thick fog; on the
below the shoulder. pierre went with anna mikháylovna into the small
below.
bells rang, the stewards rushed forward, and—like rye shaken together
believes, in the speaker’s tone of conviction and earnestness, or
“believe me,” said prince dolgorúkov, addressing bagratión, “it
“believe me, princess, i am ready to do all i can,” answered prince
“believe me, prince, a mother’s heart will never forget what you
believe everything you’re told. you were told...” hélène laughed,
believed he would be reborn to a new life.
being too much loved; and besides, you are free, you could throw it
being told she sat upright, glancing now at her beautiful round arm,
being said, thought, and felt that day by its rider.
being rose in her imagination, and carried her into a totally different
being moved, and the probing of his wound at the dressing station.
being imposed on him which he could not fulfill, and pleased him as an
being carried by. she looked out. the men servants were carrying the
being (and which struck pierre especially by contrast with his own
behind the pineapples at her husband whose face and bald head seemed
behind them, another fell in front and splashed dólokhov with blood.
behind the guns were their limbers and still farther back picket ropes
behind the emperor. the Ápsheron men, excited by the tsar’s presence,
behind the chair, held it in position. by the chair stood the priests,
behind. one of them said something strange, not in russian. in among the
behind moved infantry. the commander in chief was standing at the end of
behind him stood the aide-de-camp, the doctors, and the menservants;
behind him bondarchúk, an hussar he knew, jolted against him and looked
behind him.
behind her back. the french doctor held no taper; he was leaning
behind each chair—stood waiting for the prince to enter. the head
behind. and now here we stand hungry.”
behavior to women anatole had a manner which particularly inspires in
behaving with borís.”
behaving himself, and in general...”
beg you to dress your men decently.”
begun to think of the last station and was still pondering on the same
begin, when did it all come about?” and here he was sitting by her
begin the engagement.
beginning to feel for the pretty and provocative mademoiselle bourienne
beginning of the action.) “i think i sent you?” he added, turning to
begin,” he whispered, and taking up his glass, he rose. all were
beg—i’ll take it!”
began, with a blush that looked very strange on her thin, dignified,
began to wail like a baby without knowing why, except that sónya was
began to devise and carry out a plan of how princess mary should be
began to be said. these reasons were the treachery of the austrians, a
began to arrive; and slowly turning her eyes from the visitor to her
began. “they’ll be announcing that the gentlemen are in the drawing
began speaking clearly and definitely. reasons were found for the
began riding downhill to where the roll of musketry was heard but where
began reading. the old prince, now and then using abbreviations, wrote
began popping corks and filling the champagne glasses. after the fish,
began for the first, second, and third columns, which had gone down into
began crossing himself with the hand that held the taper.
began.
before yesterday during my daily walk through the village i witnessed a
before with proposals and demands for him to join up with the army of
before they reached the room from which the sounds of the clavichord
before the usual term and has proposed to me to be your sponsor. i
before the master arrived. everywhere preparations were made not for
before the jews.”
before the heights on which the russian batteries stood guarding the
before the battle, the figure of the insignificant little napoleon, and
before rostóv had time to make out what the black thing was that had
before returning to bilíbin’s prince andrew had gone to a bookshop
before prince andrew could finish, an aide-de-camp came in to summon
before, or am i mistaken now? no, she is not stupid, she is an excellent
before krems was really of small importance in view of such events as
before it was halted facing the enemy. again, as at the enns bridge,
before. it was a german cart with a pair of horses led by a german, and
before. “how often we sin, how much we deceive, and all for what? i am
before his shelter, had been tasted.
before him. the french had advanced nearest on our right. below the
before him, on the right, rostóv saw the front lines of his hussars and
before him but the motionless earth and the stubble around him. there
before he reached him, rostóv, who was a splendid horseman, spurred
before he had reached the embankments that were being thrown up, he saw,
before he could reach znaim. hence bagratión with his four thousand
before. having taken a kerchief from the cupboard, willarski bound
before going down she went into the room where the icons hung and, her
before five in the evening the battle had been lost at all points. more
before dinner, princess mary and mademoiselle bourienne, who knew
before dawn he had slept for a few hours, and refreshed, vigorous, and
before coming to the dinner he had had his hair and whiskers trimmed,
before anna pávlovna and the others had time to smile their
before and was less frequently at home.
before and the path to the hothouse, along which the prince was in the
before?” and again he told himself that it was impossible, that there
before action which he had experienced as previously, all the inner
befallen his son.
been waiting for.” and bursting into tears she hid her face in her
been vicious only because he had somehow forgotten how good it is to
been up to heaven only knows what! and they have had to suffer for it.
been unjust to the austrians and especially to weyrother. what
been under fire already?” asked borís.
been trying first one remedy and then another. worn out by sleeplessness
been told to, and the emperor francis merely looked fixedly into his
been thinking about you.”
been there at seven in the morning,” returned bilíbin with a smile.
been telling us such a tale about mademoiselle george and buonaparte!”
been taken by the french as a trophy.)
been so pleased at olmütz and according to which an ensign might rank
been reprimanded on account of the blue greatcoat.
been refused. he asked in a hesitating, piteous voice.
been recommended to prince andrew he had already risen above the general
been ready, but they still delayed and all were silent.
been put off,” said the prince, who, like a wound-up clock, by force
been more amusing than the drawing room talk of society scandals, the
been minutely described. princess mary was sitting alone in her room,
been looking at.
been intriguing!”
been forwarded by courier to the commander in chief.
been foreseen, the russian army of thirty-five thousand men commanded
been engrossed by the same thoughts ever since the day he returned from
been destroyed or not. and if they have somehow been overlooked, you
been composed in the turkish campaign and now being sung in austria, the
been brought up in the most aristocratic circles.
been bewildered. at that time, the russians were so used to victories
been attacked by french cavalry and that, though the attack had been
been able to free himself but that prince vasíli (who had rarely before
be easy, but here, in this wretched moravian hole, it is more difficult,
bedroom. pierre did not eat anything though he would very much have
be dozing. his head sank forward and then he roused himself.
bedouin twice and successfully put him to the showy trot in which the
be done; he felt that everybody, including his mother and sisters, was
be difficult to return to the old regime.”
bed.
be crossed and you will have to find out what is there, just as you will
become thoroughly conversant with that unwritten code with which he had
becomes a man who values his honor, perhaps too hastily, but we won’t
become of that scoundrel?” he asked denísov.
become her social vocation and, sometimes even when she did not
become habitual to him and, his handsome head held high, entered his
become cruel and harsh, are conscious of it, but cannot restrain
become completely changed, and had quite left behind his former habits
become calmer since i began to live only for myself.”
become a habit. schemes and devices for which he never rightly accounted
be clearly seen glittering as though freshly varnished. down below,
“because when once a man starts on military service, he should try to
“because not everything happens as one expects or with the smoothness
because it concerned not himself but another, his daughter, whom he
“because i hate ghost stories,” said prince hippolyte in a tone
because his line was not straight, he reached the third company.
because he rose superior to the revolution, suppressed its abuses,
because he could not. in the middle of a figure he beckoned to rostóv
be carried out, was forgotten. now, entering into weyrother’s plan,
be carried back with it oneself. bolkónski only tried not to lose
became quite pleasant again.
be brought here well wrapped up in felt. i must have two hundred pots
be better dressed than others, and would rather deprive himself of many
be best described as strength of will. pierre was always astonished at
beauty as she glided away. “and how she carries herself! for so young
beautiful young princess who was sitting some way off, the center of
“beautiful,” said the doctor in answer to a remark about the
beautiful, radiant eyes. it was as if joy—a supreme joy apart from the
beautiful hélène, whose eyes several times met those of the handsome
beautiful head and looking over her classically molded shoulder as she
beautiful eyes. last night a proposition was made me on your account
beautiful eyes grew dim, red blotches came on her face, and it took
beautiful bosom, on which she readjusted a diamond necklace. from time
beautiful.”
beaucoup d’estime, and again her face clouded over with sadness.
be at stake. but this one is too light, it’s not becoming!”
bear the whole burden on his shoulders. fancy what he had to go through!
bears!...”
bearers and the shuffling of their feet grew more hurried, as if the
be, anyway he is an honorable and brave old colonel! you’re quick at
be anyone’s lackey, but i who have nothing but my brains have to
be,” answered the princess joyfully.
be announced had passed straight through the glass porch between the
beams of mild and majestic light around, and already he felt himself
beaming smile to his head.
“be a man, my friend. i will look after your interests,” said she in
be afraid.”
battle the soldiers excitedly try to get beyond the interests of their
battle,” replied márya dmítrievna’s deep voice, which easily
battle is won by him alone. kutúzov is removed and he is appointed...
battlefield.”
battle and were engaged in peaceful occupations, the cavalry feeding the
battle and, in spite of the remonstrances of his courtiers, at twelve
battle, and by the sight of the gallant Ápsherons, his comrades in
battle, a list of whom has been sent me under flag of truce.”
battle.
battery when two balls, and then four more, fell among our guns, one
battery and the heroic endurance of captain túshin and his company,”
batteries ranged on the slopes of the pratzen heights, directed at our
battalion would follow him.
battalion to disperse them. during one of these attacks they carried off
battalions and artillery pass by and go forward and then generals
battalion commanders who smilingly pressed forward (it was plain that
battalion came onto the bridge. only denísov’s squadron of hussars
battalion and regimental commanders mounted, crossed themselves, gave
“bâton de gueules, engrêlé de gueules d’azur—maison condé,”
bathhouse, a lodge, and a large brick house with semicircular façade
barrier except the barrier of his own will.
baron funke to be appointed first secretary at vienna? the baron by all
“baron funke has been recommended to the dowager empress by her
baritone.
bare hand as red as his face.
bare chest. he was conducted from that room along passages that turned
banners, cannon, and two enemy generals. for the first time, after a
bank, hesitating to step onto the ice. the general on horseback at the
bank by unseen hands. prince andrew and the officer rode up, looked at
banging the table with a determined and drunken gesture and preparing to
bandy-legged domestic serf in a peaked cap and sheepskin coat.
band struck up in the gallery, and the guests settled down in their
band, came up and in angry tones asked the artillerymen for water.
bandage was again removed and more than ten voices said together: “sic
ball was even happier. they were both dressed in white muslin with pink
balls! i can’t tell you. and the tsarévich was very gracious to all
ballroom.
ball, flying close to him, caused him to duck and bend over his horse.
ball flew past, rose in the stirrups and sank back again. the soldiers
ball flew past. evidently they were firing at the hussars, but the balls
ball, cleaving the air, flew over the heads of bagratión and his suite,
bald hills, while he himself needed no one and nothing. he used to
bald hills. prince andrew, glancing at pierre, broke the silence now and
bald head, over which she again looked at the letter and the portrait,
bald head.
“bah! how they scurry. he just sends a ball and they think they’ll
bags into the carts, got their muskets ready, and formed rank. the
bagratión. “wait till tomorrow morning, we’ll find out everything
bagratión’s weak detachment on the znaim road he supposed it to be
bagratión’s troops, which had not yet advanced into action but were
bagratión stopped and, before replying, tried to see rostóv’s face
bagratión’s hard brown face with its half-closed, dull, sleepy eyes.
bagratión’s exhausted troops some rest, and letting the transport and
bagratión’s detachment was reunited to kutúzov’s army.
bagratión rode round the ranks that had marched past him and
bagratión replied that he was not authorized either to accept or refuse
bagratión ordered two battalions from the center to be sent to
bagratión, knowing bolkónski to be a favorite and trusted adjutant,
bagratión. his idea was, first, to concentrate all the artillery in the
bagratión gave no further orders and silently continued to walk on in
bagratión cast his large, expressionless, sleepy eyes round his suite,
bagratión called to him, and túshin, raising three fingers to his cap
bagratión bent his head in sign of agreement with what prince andrew
bagratión as he shouted, with an expression that seemed to say: “we
bagratión appeared in the doorway of the anteroom without hat or sword,
bagratión and dolgorúkov ride past with their adjutants. all the fear
bagratión, a gaunt middle-aged man of medium height with a firm,
bagratión.”
baggage was already being dispatched to olmütz. near hetzelsdorf prince
baggage train, the artillery, and columns of troops were defiling
baggage and transport, having to accept battle on the march against an
“bad news! he’s not among the prisoners nor among the killed!
badly through his spectacles, but that his wife’s connection with
badly—all this debauchery, dissipation, and the rest of it!”
bad for another traveler, and for himself it’s unavoidable, because
“bad! but it’s not that, my friend—” said dólokhov with a
bad. but anatole was dumb, swung his foot, and smilingly examined the
“bad! bad!” exclaimed pierre. “we all know what is bad for
backwards and forwards and was at last brought to the doors of the
back to the house.
back to moscow. anatole kurágin’s father managed somehow to get his
back her hair, kissed him full on the lips.
back, “give me your hand.” she took her sister-in-law’s hand and
back, cadet!” he cried angrily; and turning to denísov, who, showing
back, and bosom—which in the fashion of those days were very much
back.”
back.
back!”
baby, an old woman, and a healthy german girl with bright red cheeks
a young officer with a bewildered and pained expression on his face
a yawn. “plenty of time,” he repeated.
a wrathful wrinkle on her rather prominent marble brow. with her
a worthy dwelling place of the great god,” he added, and closed his
a word to you and you... what?” he added with renewed irritation, “i
a word to the questions addressed to him. but on entering moscow he
a woman and, like a chained convict, you lose all freedom! and all you
awkward to attract everyone’s attention and to be considered a
awkwardness or intentionally (no one could have said which) after the
awkward and uncomfortable, and her burden oppressed her now more than
a wild beast.... in poland, if you please, he nearly killed a jew.”
a wig, put his head out of the door of the antechamber, reported in
a whole month and this is the first time i have seen him in society.
a white uniform that looked strange among the russian black ones. the
a white horse followed by his suite, and said something in passing:
a whisper that the prince was sleeping, and hastily closed the door.
awful...” and he burst into tears.
awful!”
a week later, pierre, having taken leave of his new friends, the masons,
a week later pierre gave his wife full power to control all his estates
away with a grimace as if to say that everything dólokhov had said to
away. involuntarily recalling his wife’s past and her relations with
away her tears on her sister-in-law’s knee.
away from him. the alliance with prussia, austria’s treachery,
away from her. “destroying the army, destroying the men! and why? go,
away? but where to? it’s one—let them sing!”
away at the dogs! but this sort of thing is the very devil, with them
away and he had just managed to catch her, “didn’t he tell you how
away.
away.
away.
away.
aware that in front, behind, and on all sides, other russian columns
aware of his weaknesses.
aware of his existence. at the quarters of the commander in chief,
aware of a stir all around. he looked up: dólokhov was standing on the
awaiting a reply. he frowned.
awaited their fate. the firing died down and soldiers, talking eagerly,
avoid seeing all these suffering men, and he felt afraid—afraid not
avoiding gardens and enclosures, going over new and unknown ground, and
avoid general buxhöwden who by right of seniority should be our chief.
avoided the blow. “thought... blackguards...” shouted the prince
avoided looking at the young couple, and heedless and unobservant as
avoid doing certain things, and speak french. he was one of those,
“a visitor,” answered antón.
a visit. “i am starting on a journey of inspection, and of course i
a vigorous attack on the orator.
a victory over bonaparte, just when i’m not serving. yes, yes, he’s
a very long time. “if anyone finds this silence inconvenient, let him
    * “a very good morning! a very good morning!”
a very bad way of deciding whether a battle was won or lost. those who
author: leo tolstoy
authority in his voice. “who invented him, if he did not exist? whence
authorities to secure advantageous means of communication for herself
austria,” said mortemart. “the emperor of austria can never have
austrian troops, under the direction of so skillful a leader as general
austrian, to report and explain, and to his headquarters where he had
austrians, and all at once discovered from the cannon balls discharged
austrian general, continuing to read, frowned angrily and jerked his
austrian council of war at which suvórov crowed like a cock in reply to
austrian army of ulm. they are the same battalions you broke at
austrian and russian troops, both those freshly arrived from russia and
austrian adjutant, bilíbin, and last night’s conversation. having
austerlitz, borís was unable to see either prince andrew or dolgorúkov
“au revoir! thank you very much. his majesty will probably desire to
aunt without waiting to hear her speech about her majesty’s health.
aunt,” or “you do not know my aunt?” and very gravely conducted
“auntie, darling, do tell me what it is!”
auntie anna mikháylovna told me, under the seal of strict secrecy, of
aunt as she conducted him to her.
aunt, anna pávlovna mentioned each one’s name and then left them.
augesd.
auersperg was defending, and the bridge was not blown up: so murat
audience with the emperor francis occupied his thoughts.
audience, which produced an effect unfavorable to the narrator. several
audiences, but he does not like talking himself and can’t do it, as
audience over his spectacles and continued.
audible the whole length of the table.
a type of face different from that of the men, squeezed his way along;
at which prince andrew had been when he examined the battlefield.
“at what o’clock was general schmidt killed?”
“at what o’clock did the battle begin?” asked the emperor.
attitude toward him that had taken place in society.
attire appeared at the door. willarski, stepping toward him, said
at this moment that terrible door, which pierre had watched so long
at this big, stout, quiet man, wondering how such a clumsy, modest
at this a sudden change evidently took place in the princess’ ideas;
at the world is so opposed to yours that we shall not understand one
at the very instant he did this and uttered those words, pierre felt
at the steaming boiler, waiting till the sample, which a quartermaster
at the sound and then, smiling at his own sensations, stood still. the
at the soldiers who were blocking his way. “hi there, boys! keep to
at the soldiers as if threatening to punish them. cadet mirónov ducked
at the sight of the letter red patches showed themselves on the
at the razumóvski’s ball ... and countess apráksina ... i was
at the period of youth when there seems so much to do that there is no
at the olmütz review he had seemed more majestic; here he seemed
at the moment the door opened and the stranger came in, pierre felt a
at the men’s end of the table the talk grew more and more animated.
at the map, but at prince andrew’s face.
at them and hack them to pieces, their proximity now seemed so awful
at them.
at the levee prince andrew stood among the austrian officers as he had
at the least firing. the emperor’s gratitude was announced to the
at the head of a movement that had already become unrestrainable. he was
at the front an altercation occurred between an austrian guide and a
at the french.
at the foot of the hill lay wasteland over which a few groups of our
at the faces of his suite, young and animated as his own. czartorýski,
at the doors, but after all he did at last enter first. he walked shyly
at the door prince andrew and the figure of the old man in a white
at the door,” and natásha ran across the drawing room to the dancing
at the council—the coming battle and the victory that would certainly
at the club dinner.
at the cadet’s troubled face.
at the bottom of the sleigh beside rostóv, who grew more and more
at the beginning of march, old count ilyá rostóv was very busy
at the beautiful hélène with her radiant face and at the red, broad,
at the arkhárovs’ ball, talked about the war with field marshal
at the appointed hour the prince, powdered and shaven, entered the
at that time in the rostóvs’ house there prevailed an amorous
at that time, a very high ruffle, and a brown dress coat. this stout
at that moment, with noiseless footsteps and with the businesslike,
at that moment the door opened.
at that moment, on the road from the town on which signalers had been
at that moment made itself felt.
at that moment borís clearly realized what he had before surmised, that
at that moment, as the horse guards, having passed him, disappeared in
at that moment anna pávlovna came up and, looking severely at pierre,
at that instant the sun began to hide behind the clouds, and other
attentive to him. count cyril vladímirovich is your godfather after
attentively to what prince vasíli said, but kept glancing at princess
attentively to bagratión’s colloquies with the commanding officers
attention to the verses.
attention to something within her that is only seen in pregnant women,
attention to his story.
attention to her severe remark—and began to laugh. she laughed, and in
“att-ention!” shouted the regimental commander in a soul-shaking
attention of all to borís’ narrative was shown by hélène. she asked
attention. napoleon apparently remembered seeing him on the battlefield
attention. he screwed up his eyes showing that he was listening.
attention. he looked now at the pratzen heights, now at the sun floating
attention. dohktúrov, a little man, sat opposite weyrother, with
attention.
attend to the voice of their commander, or would they, disregarding him,
“attendez,” said anna pávlovna, reflecting, “i’ll speak to
attendance on him, to the enemy camp. wintzingerode was not merely
attempt at familiarity on the part of the russian messenger.
attain that knowledge and are still infinitely far from our aim; but
attained.
attack very long. about túshin and the battalion that had been in
attacks the prussians. the prussians are our faithful allies who have
attacks. both generals are angry, and the result is a challenge on
attack our headquarters, and the commander in chief has to ask for a
attack instead of being attacked, and so render the whole of this
“attack indeed!” said the colonel in a bored voice, puckering up his
attacked the men collecting wood in the copse. it was no longer possible
at someone unseen. “mr. pitt, as a traitor to the nation and to the
at six in the evening, kutúzov went to the emperor’s headquarters
“at seven o’clock? it’s very sad, very sad!”
“at seven o’clock, i believe.”
at schön grabern, what shall we not do now when he is at the front? we
a truce was kutúzov’s sole chance of gaining time, giving
a truce and sent his adjutant to kutúzov to report the offer he had
“a trifle,” said the colonel in his bass voice: “two hussars
a trembling hand placed a charge in the cannon’s mouth. the short,
a treat to her guests. as a clever maître d’hôtel serves up as a
at prince andrew with cool intensity, walking straight toward him and
at prince andrew, evidently considering something.
at prince andrew and did not even nod to him.
a toy, seeing the effect these prearranged receptions had on pierre,
at one of the post stations he overtook a convoy of russian wounded.
“at one draught, or he loses!” shouted a fourth.
at one another, and all pressed toward the exit from the bridge.
at one another.
at once, when she heard the young man’s discreet steps approaching
at once transferred to the guards as a cornet, had been educated from
   at nighttime in the moon’s fair glow
atmosphere of an army, announcing the approach of something decisive
atmosphere of a large and active town which is always so attractive to a
atmosphere made itself so strongly felt in the rostóvs’ house as at
atmosphere characteristic of homes where there are very young and very
at markóv, probably expecting markóv to pick it up for him, and how
“at least, change your coiffure,” said the little princess.
at last seizing a soldier by his collar he forced him to answer.
at last anna mikháylovna, still with the same expression, pale but
at kutúzov’s.
at krems excited but not weary, with dispatches from dokhtúrov to
at irregular intervals as before, followed by one or two cannon shots,
at intervals the bugle calls and the shouts of the enemy could be heard
at intervals, and the bullets passed somewhere in the fog singing in
a thud. denísov rode past him, leaning back and shouting something.
a threatening gesture. “if the purse isn’t found i’ll flog you,
at home, they had not yet gone to bed. the young people, after returning
at home again. he felt that he had grown up and matured very much. his
at his partner with a merry and triumphant air, suddenly stamped with
at his own sensibility, when princess mary entered. he hurriedly took a
at his hesitation and, trying to arouse his former devotional feeling,
at his estate. as regularity is a prime condition facilitating activity,
a third, count arakchéev, if his nerves were not too weak.”
at him. after this volley the regimental commander clutched at his leg;
at her timidly over his spectacles, and like a hare surrounded by hounds
at her reproachfully. “and who is it she takes after?” thought the
at her reflection in the glass. “she flatters me,” thought the
at five in the morning it was still quite dark. the troops of the
at first prince andrew read with his eyes only, but after a while,
at first irregularly at varying intervals—trata...tat—and then more
at first impossible to enter the drawing room door for the crowd of
at first he heard the sound of indifferent voices, then anna
a tête-à-tête talk with the friend of her childhood, princess anna
a terrible thing! quelle terrible chose que la guerre!”
at eight o’clock kutúzov rode to pratzen at the head of the fourth
at eight o’clock in the morning
at ease by him, “but i hope i have not offended you. i always make it
at each alternate step; and in time to this, with stern but varied
at dólokhov and his eyes dropped, the something terrible and monstrous
at dinner, conversation turned on pierre’s marriage.
at dinner anna mikháylovna talked the whole time about the war news
at daybreak on the seventeenth, a french officer who had come with
at dawn on the sixteenth of november, denísov’s squadron, in
“at boss zides, captain,” he heard the voice of the colonel, who,
at balls, amiably smiling in the society of the most brilliant women,
at bald hills with his wife. this pleasure will be but a brief one,
at bald hills, prince nicholas andréevich bolkónski’s estate, the
at bagratión over each other’s shoulders, as if he were some rare
at a soldier who lay prone, with blood on his uncovered head. the
at a soldier in the ranks of the third company in a greatcoat of bluish
at any rate his light-blue eyes gazed for about two seconds into
at any of them but smiling on all, as if graciously allowing each the
at anna pávlovna’s, that it would be difficult to get rid of anna
a tall, stout, and proud-looking woman, with a round-faced smiling
at all like the conduct of a great man!”
at all. he said to me, ‘i am sorry i can do so little for you, dear
at all as it really was. rostóv was a truthful young man and would on
at all as i ran,” thought prince andrew—“not as we ran, shouting
at a full gallop so that he outstripped the others. ahead, the enemy was
at a command, everyone began to run.
at?”
as ze sanctity of its alliances...” he spoke this last word with
“as you see,” he said.
“as you please... really... i think so... but as you please,” said
as young people often do. “no, i am too happy now to spoil my
as young bezúkhov! yes, i pity him from my heart, and shall try to give
as you may, always remain the same backs and foreheads.”
as you and princess mary call it, are the chief source of all error and
asylums, and schools were to be established on all the estates. some of
as with his feet.
as when a window is opened a whiff of fresh air from the fields enters
as were all the words he spoke that day, and count ilyá looked joyfully
as well as that the french were outflanking our left. the general
as we are masters of ulm, we cannot be deprived of the advantage of
as was his custom when at home—taking leave of a good-looking,
a suffering child and to wring her little hands even with some
a stuffy room, so a whiff of youthfulness, energy, and confidence of
a strange feeling of exasperation and yet of respect for this man’s
a strange caprice of his employer’s was admitted to table though the
“as to your business,” prince andrew continued, addressing borís,
a stout major was pacing up and down the line, and regardless of the
a story, heard from her aunt but finished in her own way, which she
a storm at the square, cut his way in, slashed right and left, how his
as though running away from some danger, and, making long, quick strides
as this Ápsheron battalion marched by, the red-faced milorádovich,
as they watched their young people executing their newly learned steps,
as they said in moscow society. he seemed to be condescending to
as they have heard it described by others, and as sounds well, but not
as they enjoyed their rhine wine, sauté, and ices, and however they
as the right flank would probably not be able to withstand the enemy’s
“as there’s no one to fall in love with on campaign, he’s fallen
as their officer—all looked at their commander like children in an
as the guest of honor, to enter first. bagratión was embarrassed, not
“as the enemy’s left wing rests on wooded hills and his right
as the bearers, among whom was anna mikháylovna, passed the young man
as the “angel incarnate.”
a star-shaped light. at one side of the table was a small carpet with
“a staff officer was here a minute ago, but skipped off,” said an
assured himself from the way rostóv looked at it that his coat had been
assuming quite the pose of a society woman (heaven knows when and where
assumed a dignified expression, which with characteristic tact she had
as soon as the singing was over, another and another toast was proposed
as soon as nicholas entered, he was enfolded in that poetic atmosphere
as soon as he learned that the russian army was in such a hopeless
as soon as all is over,” and prince vasíli sighed to intimate what he
as something generally known. but it was the first time he had heard
assigned to the commander of the pávlograd regiment in which rostóv
assigned to cavalry-captain denísov, the squadron commander, known
assiduity of its commander the regiment, in comparison with others that
as she was crossing the anteroom she saw through the window a carriage
as she sat in her room. but owing to the superstition that the fewer
as she rose to go to her own room.
as she named the empress, anna pávlovna’s face suddenly assumed an
as she became animated the prince looked at her more and more sternly,
as serene as if all this were happening at home awaiting peaceful
as reported by the division commanders, ostermann and sedmorétzki, and
as possible to conceal his own part in the improvements that had been
“a splendid soldier, splendid! ‘what am i attached to!’ ha, ha,
“a splendid reply!” said napoleon. “young man, you will go far!”
a space like a street was left between each two lines of troops. the
a son of nicholas bolkónski, i shall be ashamed!”
a soldier was driving, and a woman enveloped in shawls sat behind the
a soldier’s cross, equally shabby cadet’s riding breeches lined with
a soldier on the march is hemmed in and borne along by his regiment as
as often happens in early youth, especially to one who leads a lonely
as often happens after long sleeplessness and long anxiety, he was
as much self-confidence as if he were addressing school children—that
a smile that broadened his round face more and more, prepared the
a smile of joy and satisfaction lit up her eager face.
a smile he could not repress as he recalled his reception at brünn.
a smell of perfume, and put it to nesvítski’s nose.
“as may happen,” said rostóv.
as many persons are to me—father, sister, wife—those dearest to
a small reception, and just see how badly i am dressed.” and she
as long as i live.”
a slipper for his left foot. with a childlike smile of embarrassment,
a slightly contemptuous smile, he said: “yes, there are many stories
asleep. prince andrew felt sorry for his sister.
asleep, nor even remain in one place, but had to jump up and pace the
ask you to put the money on your cards,” replied dólokhov. “don’t
“ask the count to come to me.”
asking forgiveness?”
asking.” but dying was also dreadful.
“ask him to wait,” and the sound was heard of a chair being pushed
ask himself. it was as if the thread of the chief screw which held his
ask forgiveness.
asked weyrother several times to repeat words he had not clearly heard
asked to see the portrait of the aunt’s husband on the box lid.
asked to play on the clavichord. anatole, laughing and in high spirits,
asked to give up all he possessed.
asked. “they say old maids have a mania for matchmaking, and though i
asked the son.
asked the prince’s permission to ride round the position to see the
asked the italian how he stood russian climate. the italian’s
asked rostóv, with a contemptuous smile.
asked permission to be present at the battle out of curiosity. the
asked one of the ladies.
asked natásha, so seriously and excitedly that it was evident that what
asked him to tell the emperor. what do you think he replied? ‘but, my
asked and answered at the same instant. he was alone in the middle of a
ask; but to prove my devotion to you and how i respect your father’s
as i write?
“as i was saying to you, andrew, be kind and generous as you always
as it was too far to the left flank for him to have time to go there
“as it flies past me, daddy, the ball i mean,” said a young soldier
as is usually the case with people meeting after a prolonged separation,
as i remember nikólenka. him—i just shut my eyes and remember,
as in a spoiled child, a continual consciousness of her charming defect,
a sin, a great sin, it is hatred of that vile woman!” almost shrieked
as impracticable, he arranged for the erection of large
a sign of approaching anger. “i was forgetting... do you wish it
as if to reassure prince andrew.
as if to explain such a question.
as if to ascertain whether his father’s habits had changed since he
as if stirred to his heart’s core and himself regretting and laughing
as if she had to give some final necessary instructions.
as if she had asked him to do it.
as if running a sword through an invisible foe, and glaring savagely
as if he felt a little confused before his son. “now, if you would
as if guessing what it was about.
as if flinging something to the ground, the drummer—a lean, handsome
as if continuing a conversation the subject of which had often been
as if at times there radiated from them shafts of warm light)—were
as if astonished at the word. “well, you see, i’m building. i mean
as i do not intend to be at your house again for reasons you know
aside with his arm, said in a breathless voice,
aside and turning sharply away; but rising immediately, he paced up and
a shot, and our troops could be seen hurrying to the crossing.
a short pause, “but everyone lives in his own way. you lived for
as his own. what also conduced to bagratión’s being selected as
as he would have done to a stranger.
as he was leaving the battery, firing was heard on the left also, and
as he sat on the sloping ledge. as he began slipping down, his head and
as he said this prince andrew was less than ever like that bolkónski
as he said this he rose, went to his sister, and, stooping, kissed
as he rode by.
a shell burst in the midst of that dense throng, killing some and
as he liked, now in petersburg i hear he has been doing such terrible
as he lay back in his armchair, looking in another direction.
as he had been accustomed to from childhood. besides it was pleasant,
as he felt himself to be at that moment. he was conscious that here
as he expected he was appointed an adjutant to the governor general of
as he closed his eyes his ears seemed filled with the rattle of the
as he approached, a ringing shot issued from it deafening him and his
as he always did when at the front, solemn and stern. then came the word
ashamed of himself, he said, as if merely asking his father to let him
ashamed; he felt that he was occupying someone else’s place here
“as far as the service goes he is quite punctilious, your excellency;
as far as moscow and to stay with him there. meeting a comrade at
as ever. a solitary tallow candle burned in the anteroom.
a seventy-pound weight were tied to it. he could run no more. the
a servant. from there they passed into another room. a man in strange
a sense of disgust the minutest details of this humiliating scene he
as elsewhere, he was surrounded by an atmosphere of subservience to
as clear as day, and can go so far astray. that is the only thing
a schoolboy who is told to repeat a lesson he has not learned. spots
ascended the carpeted stairs.
as borís. “count! i am wounded in my right hand” (and he showed his
as a veranda.
as author of the military plan, argued that bonaparte might easily
as a true hussar in this battle, had been wasted. their squadron
as a petitioner on behalf of this young man. you see...” but
as a mark of their gratitude for the benefits he had conferred on them,
as a man recently returned from abroad, in a political conversation in
as always happens when women lead lonely lives for any length of time
as a friend that frees the soul grown weary in the labors of virtue
as a frenchman would speak after spending about a year in russia.
as a dense cloud of smoke arose from it. the hussars had succeeded in
as a child, there was no longer in her singing that comical, childish,
a rustle of starched petticoats and the whispering and laughter of
a rule to speak out... well, what answer am i to take? will you come to
artless smile, she had met him in secluded passages.
artillery sentry was pacing up and down; he stood at attention when the
artillerymen, túshin, and the cadet exchanged silent glances as they
artillerymen, some of whom were fighting, while others, having abandoned
artilleryman, wiping away the blood with his coat sleeve, as if
artilleryman to prince andrew. “not like your honor!”
artillery company, a head and shoulders taller and twice as broad
arrived from russia. with this object he intended to meet the regiment;
arrival, thought in another way. of course, she, a handsome young woman
arrival of young prince andrew and his wife was daily expected, but
arranging a dinner in honor of prince bagratión at the english club.
arrangements to the minutest detail remain the same.”
arrangements of the house, he interrupted himself:
arrangement of the festival in honor of bagratión, for few men knew
arranged and how nice it all was? there’s uncle shinshín’s brother
aroused him. he started and opened his eyes.
around them cannon balls were flying, of which he was aware not so
around him. an infantryman came to the fire, squatted on his heels, held
(“arnauts” was the tsarévich’s favorite expression when he was in
army. you have brought your army corps to pultúsk, routed: here it is
army.... you are in a position to seize its baggage and artillery.
army was very favorable.
army’s campfires dimly glowing in the fog, could be seen behind him;
army, and the member of the hofkriegsrath who had arrived the previous
army, and in the night from the nineteenth to the twentieth, the whole
army, and even napoleon himself with his staff, were not on the far side
arm wavered still more with the strain. one hand moved as if to clutch
arms on the table and began to read. after reading a few lines, he
arm’s length, apparently afraid of shooting himself with it. his left
arms and the hope of future triumph. and he was not the only man to
arm. he began to laugh.
arkhárovs; they have a party.”
arithmetic, when rising from his chair he would walk away from her,
a ring, he made the sign of the cross over him with a gesture evidently
   a rhipheus at home, a caesar in the field!
“are you ready?” he asked his wife, looking past her.
“are you not ashamed to deprive us of your charming wife?”
are young and i am old. i should like to help you as far as lies in my
“are you mad? you have twice been ordered to retreat, and you...”
“are you living with your mother?”
“are you going to count cyril vladímirovich, my dear?” said the
are you dumb?’ he shouted. still i remained silent. and what do you
are wrapped up in you, and that in spite of the distance separating us
are within sight of the enemy and he wishes to profit by the opportunity
are we to find suvórovs now? je vous demande un peu,” *(4) said he,
are very pale!” said princess mary in alarm, running with her soft,
are they doing? what are they doing?” he murmured to himself, still
are there,” said the officer, pointing to the village of hosjeradek,
are the french!’ murat, seeing that all is lost if the sergeant is
are taken to the field marshal’s room, for he likes to do everything
a reproach to everyone. now tell me, count, was it right, was it
a reply unnecessary. she smilingly waited. all the time the story was
are now two russians, milorádovich, and dokhtúrov, and there would be
are not many left of us old friends! that’s why i so value your
are, monsieur pierre!”
are many stories of his getting to know an officer in just such a chance
are here?”
are distributed. why has fate given you two such splendid children?
are clever, you are well educated. and what have you done with all these
are childwen of the dust... but one falls in love and one is a god, one
are being deceived, my instinct tells me of negotiations with france and
are—at the heart of affairs and of the world—is the talk all of
a real one, but that they would talk of that later. princess mary was
are all stupid; but i know this: an illegitimate son cannot inherit...
architect’s attention to the sound of the prince’s footsteps.
architect not to go to the prince with his report.
archduke’s as good as another, as you know) and even if it is only
archduke, inspected the allied army of eighty thousand men.
archduchess also wished to see him. he did not know whom to answer, and
a rage) and called for the company commander.
a quite unexpected, chance of saving the army. on receiving the news
À propos of marriages: do you know that a while ago that universal
apron, which symbolized strength and purity; then of the unexplained
apron under the leather hood of the vehicle. prince andrew rode up
apron, such as the others wore, was put on him: he was given a trowel
aprons like the rhetor’s and holding swords in their hands pointed at
apráksins’ i heard a lady asking, ‘is that the famous prince
apráksina...” and then, again rustling, pass into the anteroom, put
approaching enemy farther off. at the same instant the sun came fully
approaching departure did not prevent his amusing himself, but rather
approaching. and at that moment, though the day was still, a light gust
approached the door of the minister’s room. he felt offended, and
approached kutúzov. of kutúzov’s suite only four remained. they were
approached first, experienced the same feeling as every other man in
approached.
approach, but even in this room there now stood an empty bath, and water
appreciation of the vicomte’s epigram, pierre again broke into the
appreciate at a glance her superiority to the plain, badly dressed,
appointment to london was a promotion and that he was so to regard it.
apple, also half smiling as he looked at the handsome girl.
appearing on the skyline, which they knew to be the enemy’s troops.
appeared to him in a dream: his mother and her large white hand,
appeared, then a second and a third almost simultaneously, and at the
appeared that they had worn when under fire. rostóv watched his enemy,
appeared shy of her unquestionable and all too victorious beauty. she
appeared, quite out of keeping with his features, that seemed to deride
appeared punctually to the appointed hour. everyone sitting in this
appeared on his nose, the redness of which was evidently due to
appeared in the doorway. the general with the bandaged head bent forward
appeared. he would carry her away and then sa pauvre mère would appear
appeared from behind his company and, though he was a middle-aged man
appeared a stupid smile of glee which he seemed unable to suppress.
appeared.
appear as if he did not want any of that wine, but was mortified because
apparently the sight of them roused no pleasant feeling in véra.
apparently suffering more than the dying soldier, and he rode away.
apparently she had forgotten her age and by force of habit employed
apparently immersed in his own thoughts.
a portrait so characteristic of the original as to be amusing.
apologizing for the state of his gun.
apologize to an old and honorable officer? whatever bogdánich may
apologize.”
a policeman and the bear back to back and put the bear into the moyka
a plan of marriage for you. it is neither more nor less than with prince
a peg on which to hang the prince’s favorite topic, he looked
a partner, and the old men began smilingly to talk about poland and the
apartments assigned to prince vasíli.
a particular glamour and glad keenness of impression to everything that
apart from myself.”
any women—countesses or cooks—who were not venal. i have not yet met
anything wrong in my behavior. but i’ll just tell mamma how you are
anything, when suddenly the well-known whispering of mademoiselle
anything to say, say it. these two things can be done together,” he
anything might happen, only not that.
anything like it. she believed it could be, but did not understand it.
anything. if it be god’s will to prove thee in the duties of marriage,
anything. here is a letter to prince vasíli, and here is money. write
anything for his happiness! and my affairs are in such a bad way that my
anything, except only for permission, after the blow she had received,
anything else.... you have not been ordered to return and have not been
anything. do you know i have sent for pierre? the count,” pointing to
anything, dólokhov, looking straight in his face, said slowly and
anything, but was only conscious of her stern father’s withered face
any the worse off. in siberia they lead the same animal life, and the
anyone who wanted to see him could come the hundred miles from moscow to
anyone. they wished to administer the sacrament of unction.”
anyone in particular, began to say how difficult it was to carry out
anyone if he is in disfavor. now come here.”
anyone flogged or sent to siberia—and still less for your serfs. if
anyone else had a right to criticize what the empress desired or was
anyone else does the same, i will pay him a hundred imperials. do you
anyone, but you know it yourself.”
anyone, and so you don’t deserve to have them.”
“any news from mack?”
any moment the emperor may see them.... but no, these must be only a
any moment.)
any clever conversation that was to be heard. seeing the self-confident
an unexpected and tenderly paternal way.
antónov.”
antichrist—i really believe he is antichrist—i will have nothing
anteroom with him.
antechamber experienced the same feeling of respect and even fear when
answer that voice and went on dreaming of his triumphs. the dispositions
answer than the one prince andrew gave to this naïve question.
answers to these questions, as was only too evident, did not interest
answered the soldier. prince andrew took out his purse and gave the
answered the general.
answered pierre, trying to remember who this young man was.
answered lavrúshka. “i know by now, if he wins he comes back early to
answered him either by a brief but appropriate remark—showing that it
answered her, as he had the countess, only in monosyllables. the other
answered.”
answer. at last he moved up to pierre and, taking the kerchief that lay
an outsider is out of place here.... no, don’t distress yourself....
another who wished to get away. with his head bent, and his big feet
another voice, from a man of medium height with clear blue eyes,
another two minutes and it is certain death,” thought each one.
another time he interrupted, saying:
another, they all gave, and transmitted, orders as to how to proceed,
another, the red, stout nesvítski, lay on a bed with his arms under his
another’s faces and speak to one another. besides the soldiers who
another pie but felt shy, and therefore pretended to be examining the
another of the precepts—that of reforming the human race—and had
another, more important, subordination, which made this tight-laced,
“another ismail comrade,” said he. “a brave officer! are you
another hussar also rushed toward the horse, but bondarénko had already
another, hardly able to suppress their laughter.
another group was at the tea table. pierre wished to join the former,
another group.
another five days passed, and then the young prince nicholas andréevich
another, dying, stepping over the dying and killing one another, only to
another company, a lucky one for not all the companies had vodka,
another candle. still lower, beyond the turn of the staircase, one
another, a younger voice, interrupted him: “afraid or not, you can’t
another and soon the whole battalion ran forward shouting “hurrah!”
another. all became silent and turned to look at the pale tear-worn anna
another—a childlike, kindly, even rather silly look, which seemed to
another.”
another.
“an order to who?” asked the colonel morosely.
an orderly’s charge, and he felt the blood rush to his heart with
an orderly, or a townsman was carried through the waves of infantry;
an opportunity to express his doubts.
an old powdered manservant who was sitting in the antechamber rose
an old friend.
an oath of fidelity to the laws of the order. the candles were then
annoyance. “good luck to you!”
announce him, but, changing his mind, came back and stooped to kiss the
“annette, for heaven’s sake don’t refuse me,” the countess
anna pávlovna’s two years before. there were also present a very
anna pávlovna’s soiree. the matter was mentioned to the emperor, an
anna pávlovna’s reception was in full swing. the spindles hummed
anna pávlovna smiled and promised to take pierre in hand. she knew his
anna pávlovna’s drawing room was gradually filling. the highest
anna pávlovna’s “at home” was like the former one, only the
anna pávlovna’s alarm was justified, for pierre turned away from the
anna pávlovna in dismay detained him with the words: “do you know the
anna pávlovna had already managed to speak to lise about the match she
anna pávlovna gave him her shriveled hand to kiss and introduced him to
anna pávlovna frowned. mortemart, hippolyte’s friend, addressed him
anna pávlovna disapproved.
anna pávlovna continued to give on free evenings the same kind of
anna pávlovna almost closed her eyes to indicate that neither she nor
    * anna pávlovna.
anna mikháylovna, who always knew everything that passed in the house,
anna mikháylovna was already embracing her and weeping. the countess
anna mikháylovna turned up her eyes, and profound sadness was depicted
anna mikháylovna took off her gloves and, occupying the position she
anna mikháylovna, though her circumstances had improved, was still
anna mikháylovna’s was the most distinct.
anna mikháylovna sighed deeply.
anna mikháylovna shook her head.
anna mikháylovna’s face expressed a consciousness that the decisive
anna mikháylovna sat down beside him, with her own handkerchief wiped
anna mikháylovna paused and waited for him to come up.
anna mikháylovna opened the door. her face wore the proud expression
anna mikháylovna looked at véra and paused. the countess pressed her
anna mikháylovna instantly guessed her intention and stooped to be
anna mikháylovna, in a few words, told her the contents of the letter,
anna mikháylovna came out last. she approached pierre with slow, quiet
anna mikháylovna.
an inspection anywhere in the heart of russia.
an inn in the village which the officers frequented. rostóv rode up to
an indescribable charm of sorrow and self-forgetfulness that her father
an immediate answer. prince vasíli had brought his son with the evident
animation of the past or the future. it was as if prince andrew would
animated, and handsome, with his hand bandaged. in the study were four
animal went when excited. bending his foaming muzzle to his chest, his
animal. count ilyá rostóv, laughing and repeating the words, “make
an illegitimate son, and petted and extolled when he was the best
“a nice little hot torch for the infantry! good luck to you, fellow
an hour’s delay they at last moved on, descending the hill. the fog
an hour later, tíkhon came to call princess mary to the old prince;
an hour and a half later most of the players were but little interested
angry with me for coming? you have changed so, andrúsha,” she added,
angry—but i know you will not marry her. i know, heaven knows how, but
angrily pulling down his tight scarf.
angrily, came in at the other door. natásha checked her first impulse
angrily blowing his nose. hardly had prince andrew gone when the study
angrily at him. bondarchúk’s horse swerved and galloped past.
angrily and disrespectfully at kozlóvski.
angling, while his grandson, with shirt sleeves rolled up, handled the
anger he did not condescend to notice, and said: “i think you were
angered the countess when it was not properly cleaned, turned as loosely
anger and walking up to the regiment wished to find a further excuse for
an eye on me! very well then! get along with you!’ so he writes the
an expression of perplexity, turned round to milorádovich as if seeking
an explanation, but meeting the latter’s impressive but meaningless
an exemplary officer of twenty-two years’ service, who had never been
an excruciating pain in his arm, for which he could find no satisfactory
an entreaty, a threat, and above all conviction that she would herself
a need to escape from it by some strange, and usually cruel, action.
“and you won’t feel ashamed to write to him?”
“and you too!”
“and you’re still the same diplomatist! but that’s not the
and your capital!’ the one general whom we all loved, schmidt, you
and young people are rarely capable of it. his hearers expected a story
and you, mon cousin, seem to consider me a perfect fool,” said the
“and you?” he asked dólokhov, but as soon as he had asked the
“and you didn’t see that everybody is packing up?”
“and you? are you going to have lunch too? they feed you quite
and you.”
and yet long to cross that line, and know that sooner or later it must
and yet be happy....”
and wrote a few words on a large sheet of paper folded in four).
and with this object offered a three days’ truce on condition that
and with the familiarity and easy grace peculiar to him, he raised the
“and without holding on to anything. is that right?”
and without awaiting a reply, prince andrew rose and left the table.
and with his hand at the salute rode up to the general.
and with baritone notes in his voice, new to borís, pointing to his own
and with a hooked nose. then came two more, and many more running
and with a furtive glance at his son’s face, the count went out of the
and with a bow to them both he went out.
and wish you to have as good an opinion of me. don’t upset yourself,
and wished he could tell what, if anything, this man was thinking
and wiping their faces with their cambric handkerchiefs.
and will then inherit everything under the will? and if the will and
“and will she soon be confined?” and shaking his head reproachfully
“and why the deuce are we going to fight bonaparte?” remarked
“and why is it?”
“and why do you serve?”
“and why didn’t you simply come straight to me as to a friend? i
“and why didn’t you do it at seven in the morning? you ought to have
“and why are they stopping? there’s no proper order!” said the
“and why are children born to such men as you? if you were not a
“and who will inherit his wealth?” he added in a whisper.
and who was called tit. he was saying, “tit, i say, tit!”
and whom borís addressed turned round crossly and told him bolkónski
“and who has told you what is bad for another man?” he asked.
“and who are you?” cried the officer, turning on him with tipsy
and while kutúzov was turning managed to make a grimace and then assume
and which had always opened so quietly, burst noisily open and banged
and where to shoot,” he said with an unnaturally gentle smile.
“and where is lise?” he asked, answering her question only by a
and wheels began to revolve faster and faster, levers and cogwheels to
and what to expect after it beyond the grave! how happy and calm i
“and what is she so pleased about?” thought nicholas, looking at his
and, whatever may happen to him or to me, shall never cease to love him
“and what do you think of this latest comedy, the coronation at
“and what devil made me go to that wat?” (an officer nicknamed
“and what a well-preserved man he was!” remarked the aide-de-camp.
“and what about his character?” asked the regimental commander.
and went to the door.
and went out of the corridor.
and went out. natásha had put on one spurred boot and was just getting
and went in at the open door. there was no one in the anteroom; empty
“and we, my dear boy! it’s terrible! i was wrong to laugh at mack,
and well informed foregathered when the news began to arrive in
and way of life.
and, waving her thin arms from under the woolen shawl, cried:
and watched his opponent’s face, evidently thinking about the game as
and was therefore out of sorts, a state of mind which with her always
and was just putting his question to a soldier when his attention
and was going to tuck up the other trouser leg to save this stranger the
and was crossing himself with his right hand, turning his eyes upward
and was a stranger there. in his person, honor was shown to a simple
and warmly pressing his hand looked affectionately over his spectacles
and, walking backwards before the company, jerked his shoulders and
and wait for her, she went silently toward the door that everyone was
and voices. this class of guests and members sat in certain habitual
and virtue than mere words. this chamber with what you see therein
and virtue, and thereby try with all our might to combat the evil which
and until you have ceased to love the woman of your choice and have seen
and unreasonable than a little child, who, playing with the parts of a
and unexpectedly again began to cry.
and two or three friends—you among them—and as for the rest i only
and triumph.
and ‘to siberia!’” said berg with a sagacious smile. “i knew i
and to pierre, glancing at him again.
and took hold of the commander’s stirrup, almost leaning against him.
and thrill of suspense usual at such moments. outside the house, beyond
and threw them round the little girl who had run in.
and three pairs of gloves, and then the grand master addressed him. he
and thoughtfully shaking his head. did he fear going to the war, or was
and this “well!” sounded coldly ironic, as if he were saying: “now
“and this is gratitude—this is recognition for those who have
“and they said kutúzov was blind of one eye?”
and they disappeared into the darkness with their load.
and they awoke in him astonishment at the genius of his hero, a feeling
... and the wish, which constitutes the emperor’s sole and absolute
and the whole secret lies in the terrible truth that she is a depraved
and the visitors try to guess from these glances who, or what, they are
and the two friends told each other of their doings, the one of his
and the two emperors were living with their suites, households, and
and the traveler became absorbed in it. pierre looked at him. all at
and the tramp of horses’ hoofs were heard. kutúzov and his suite were
and the talkative dolgorúkov, turning now to borís, now to prince
and the staff captain rose and turned away from rostóv.
and the second aim, that of purifying and regenerating himself, did not
and the same look. in the middle of a dull and halting conversation,
and the rewards sent to the army are innumerable. though he is a
and there too sat the members of the family, and pierre and hélène,
“and there’s nothing for you to say. i shall speak to him myself,”
and there is nothing to thank me for. no one has ever complained yet of
and there in the coffin was the same face, though with closed eyes.
“and there hasn’t been anyone in the room except the lieutenant and
and the reading of the letter began. after a brief description of
and the rattling of carriage wheels seemed to fill his ears, and now
“and the prisoners he killed in africa? that was horrible!” said the
and the prince began explaining all the blunders which, according to
and the pistols loaded, nesvítski went up to pierre.
and the owner of the manly voice, evidently an infantry officer,
and the others who did not approve of the plan of attack, were
“and the other one is not here. they’ve been telling tales,” he
and the orders he gave them and, to his surprise, found that no orders
and the old countess were especially disturbed, and to a lesser degree
and the old cavalry captain, kírsten, shouted enthusiastically and no
and then to call him out, reckoning on fédya not fighting because he
“and then, old fellow, he gives him one in the teeth with the butt
“and then of course my family has also to be considered,” prince
and then he suddenly stopped and performed some new and unexpected
and then calmly and seriously sat back in his chair. anna pávlovna
and then at the other.
and the munching of the lieutenant.
and the men’s at the other.
and the latter—unconscious that he was being reflected in the hussar
and the jingle of their weapons and saw their horses, their figures, and
and the glory that awaited him.
and the general in white, accompanied by the suite, walked between the
“and the fete at the english ambassador’s? today is wednesday. i
and the feeling of energy with which the troops had started began to
and the distinguished dignitary who bore the title of “collector
and the disgrace of having lost two guns and yet remaining alive present
and the difficult names of villages. weyrother complied and dohktúrov
and the crimean estate, in order to make it possible: all of which
and the count turned to the cook, who, with a shrewd and respectful
and the conversation again turned on the war, on bonaparte, and the
and the constant gleam of her white teeth, thought that they were in a
and the consequent impossibility of a speedy emancipation.
and the commander, turning to look at the adjutant, directed his jerky
and the cannon, under the horses’ hoofs and between the wagon wheels,
and the burning of an arm with a ruler as a proof of love did not seem
and the brilliance of the bright sunshine merged in a single joyous and
and the boyish face rostóv, breathless with excitement and hope, was
and the allowance to the three princesses; about 15,000 was given in
“and that would be splendid,” said pierre.
and that the whole army had surrendered at ulm proved to be correct.
and that the richest peasants (who formed the deputation) had begun
and that’s how it is with me. À demain, mon cher.” *
“and that other one with him, the austrian, looked as if he were
and that if a letter reached the grand duke in command of the guards
and that her husband was a cross laid upon her by god. prince vasíli
and that daredevil after her!” said anna mikháylovna, wishing to show
“and tell mr. dólokhov that i won’t forget him—he may be quite
and tear whatever came to his hand. “why did i tell her that ‘je
and tears, till at last somebody else was asked to read it.”
and taking nesvítski’s arm he left zherkóv, who did not know what to
and, taking natásha’s hand, kissed it.
and swallowed the cold snow, his lips quivered but his eyes, still
and suddenly the whole world centered for him on anticipation of the
and suddenly seemed to grow very merry.
and suddenly determines to speak out.
and suddenly began to cry.
and suddenly, as if he had studied her sufficiently and had formed a
and strength. he was continually traveling through the three provinces
and strange to say nicholas felt that he could not help taking up a
and stopped near him.
and stooped glass in hand over the infant.
and stood still in the dim light beneath the curtain as if not wishing
and stood, hanging her head.
and still the same and in the same place. no, it can’t be! surely it
and still fewer men would be so well able and willing to make up out of
“and so you’ve had him educated abroad, prince vasíli, haven’t
“and so you think napoleon will manage to get an army across?” asked
“and so you had to go through that too!”
and sought the acquaintance of only those above him in position and
“and so they are writing from potsdam already?” he said, repeating
and so the anecdote ended. though it was unintelligible why he had told
and so sparkling their eyes. sometimes the best of the pupils, of whom
and so said the youths and maidens themselves as they danced till they
and sometimes like a log floating down the river, an officers’ or
and sometimes laughed. nearest of all to the commander in chief walked
and sometimes flung the exercise book away.
and solemn, and awakening in the men an unusual curiosity. on the day of
“and so he is! quite blind!”
and so further increased the fame of these dances. what distinguished
and social topics were ended and the time had come for intimate
and social tact,” thought he; “been proud of my house, in which she
and sit. this morning i turned them all out and now look, it’s full
and sinfulness?” he paused again. “who art thou? thou dreamest that
and simply, “mr. shítov—a man of great merit”—this of the man
and silver of the men’s epaulets; servants in scarlet liveries moved
and silent when the talk related to any topic that had no direct bearing
and sighing disdainfully, he again changed his position.
and show you what kind of rivet to use.”
and shown such unaffected familiarity in intercourse with everybody both
“and showed me a letter in which the parade of the french in vienna
and shouted to the musicians to play faster. faster, faster, and faster;
“and should not justify your confidence and the honor you have done
and she won’t say anything to mamma. nicholas will tell her himself,
and she with him, that there was quite a scandal and that that’s why
and she smiled her ecstatic smile.
“and she’s in love with borís already. just fancy!” said the
and she’s even in my way. you know i always was a savage, and now am
and she set off at a run along the passage.
and she found them on my table and said she’d show them to mamma, and
and she began to cry again because he had such a noble soul.
and several other less noteworthy persons.
and see the standard flapping against its staff.
and seeing that the elder visitor was not listening, he turned to the
and seeing her severe face said: “well, good-by, countess,” and
and secured their release by heavy payments. he did not know that the
and, scowling, he gave nicholas just such a look as he had given pierre
and scented myself.”
and scarcely breathing, watched from her ambush with sparkling eyes.
and scapegraces of petersburg.
and saying something in their gypsy accents. nicholas understood that it
and say, “i am so delighted... mamma’s health... and countess
and saw that the lamp stood on a black table on which lay an open book.
and salt of hospitality, as, according to his understanding of his
and salt and an icon of saint peter and saint paul, asking permission,
andrúsha—the slender mischievous boy who had been her playfellow in
andrúsha!...” said she, putting her hand in her reticule but not yet
and running so lightly, frightened rostóv. he seized his pistol and,
and rostóv got up and went wandering among the campfires, dreaming of
andrew, whom borís was expecting, entered the room. prince andrew, who
andrew went out with him.
andrew was natural and pleasant. others, the majority, disliked him and
andrew was in and borís was shown into a large hall probably formerly
andrew was galloping along in a post chaise enjoying the feelings of a
andrew, told how bonaparte wishing to test markóv, our ambassador,
andrew, “that all the atrocities of the french army (i nearly said of
andrew struck the high road along which the russian army was moving with
andrew’s presence. he was ashamed to express his new masonic views,
andrew slowly, not taking his eyes off his wife.
andrew shook himself as if waking up, and his face assumed the look it
andrew...” she said timidly after a moment’s silence, “i have a
andrew read the same mild reproach he had read on the face of his dead
andrew, paying no more heed to the general who ran after him imploring
andrew made his way up to the battery from which the staff officer had
andrew. “look here, my dear fellow, get from kozlóvski all the
andrew. “i wish you good luck and success, gentlemen!” he added and
andrew... is father’s way of treating religious subjects. i don’t
andrew in his boyhood, helped pierre out of his carriage, said that the
“andrew, if you had faith you would have turned to god and asked him
andrew?’ i did indeed.” she laughed. “he is so well received
“andrew, i bless you with this icon and you must promise me you will
andrew, “i am only surprised at your opinion of bonaparte. you
andrew had gone and made the sign of the cross in his direction. from
andrew had already heard from his wife in the presence of others some
andrew felt that something gave way in his soul and that he was guilty
andrew felt a pleasant sense of repose among luxurious surroundings such
andrew entered the passage. kutúzov himself, he was told, was in the
“andrew, don’t!” said princess mary.
andrew? don’t forget that she has grown up and been educated in
andrew did not tell his father that he would no doubt live a long time
andrew did not speak; he was both pleased and displeased that his father
andrew came up, stroked her hair, and asked if she felt rested after
andrew. “besides, in the actions of a statesman one has to distinguish
andrew as one of themselves, an honor they did not extend to many. from
andrew a reliable correspondent to whom he could pour out the bile he
andrew apparently knew this as well as tíkhon; he looked at his watch
andrew, “and at anna pávlovna’s they listen to me. and that stupid
“andrew, already!” said the little princess, turning pale and
andrew.
andrew.
andrew.
and returned a glove pierre had dropped; the doctors became respectfully
and respectfully that the prince gave him a searching glance.
and respect as few hardhearted men would have aroused. although he was
and resignation to the will of god. “if you do not understand these
“andré,” said his wife, addressing her husband in the same
and replacing their purses and pocketbooks, entered the ballroom. first
and remained so for some minutes. piteous, helpless, animal moans came
and relations had been given to understand that the fate of the young
and regarded as the key to the position. he saw over the mist that in
and refined expression on the faces of those present he was always
and really he only ran a few steps alone. one soldier moved and then
and really another french soldier, trailing his musket, ran up to
and put the matter before the emperor,” said princess anna
and prove my devotion to his majesty the emperor and to russia!”
and proudly around while bagratión spoke to his son.
and promised to write to him and guide him in his new activity.
and profligate life, though i did not like it and did not want to,”
and princess mary tried, but could not manage, to be cordial to her new
and prince dolgorúkov rapidly but indistinctly explained weyrother’s
and prince andrew, with others fatally wounded, was left to the care of
and prince andrew after giving directions about his departure went to
and, pressing pierre’s hand, he went out.
and pressed him against the railings, and all he could do was to smile.
and pierre, anxiously trying to remember whether he had done anything
and paused facing her at the foot of the sofa on which she was lying.
and part were leaving these pratzen heights which he intended to attack
and particularly amiable smile.
and parted smiling, the german returning to his cowshed and rostóv
and painfully felt. my father talks of nothing but marches and
and overtook him. a sergeant of the battalion ran up and took the flag
and out of the bedroom glanced at the princess and turned away. she did
“and our share?” asked the princess smiling ironically, as if
“and our little tea table?”
and opened the door for him.
   and on the throne our titus shield.
and only turned away his eyes when the austrian chief of staff finished
and one could hear their distressing screams and groans, sometimes
and one booted foot, he advanced, while willarski held a sword to his
and on all their faces he recognized the same eagerness that filled his
and of good family and that’s all i want.”
and of course not as ‘emperor,’ it seemed to me it should be to
and now there’s dólokhov sitting in the snow with a forced smile and
“and now, in token of candor, i ask you to reveal to me your chief
and not with his eyes.
and not value her pure affection and devotion to me?” she went up
and not only at the same hour but at the same minute. with those about
and not in the habit of running, trotted awkwardly stumbling on his
and not become vehement, but almost always did become vehement, scolded,
and no connections. yet, though anatole spent tens of thousands of
and nicholas again kissed her hand.
and next balls, about theatricals, and who would meet whom, and when and
and natásha rose and went out of the room on tiptoe, like a ballet
and natásha kissed her brother and ran away.
and natásha, in the light-blue dresses they had worn at the theater,
and my life, my life,” he thought, “must be risked?”
and my father was much affected by it. he says the count was the last
and musketry ahead of him. the firing grew louder and louder.
and murat, humiliated and anxious to expiate his fault, had at once
and moved to the right; from behind it, dispersing the laggards, came
and moved along the ranks shouting. the train drivers and orderlies
and most advantageous style, like a well-garnished joint of roast beef
and more regularly and rapidly, and the action at the goldbach stream
and more attractive.
and mirth that shone in all their faces. evidently in the back rooms,
and mingling with one another. he could also, by the gleam of bayonets
“and me? would you like to kiss me?” she whispered almost inaudibly,
and merry faces. it was natásha, sónya, and pétya, who had come to
“and me, kiss me!”
and martinists, even in novíkov’s time. for a long while after he had
“and mamma pressed her!” said nicholas reproachfully.
and making pencil notes on them, and for the first two or three minutes
and making a wide sweep with his arm, amid a thunder of applause and
and majestic voice that was yet so simple! and as if in accord with
“and love of one’s neighbor, and self-sacrifice?” began pierre.
and looks of those who had seen them together. he recalled anna
and looking carelessly about him.
and looked at him closely.
and looked at her in such a way that not only could she not bear his
and little tables. during balls given at the house pierre, who did not
and littered with cards. one tormenting impression did not leave him:
“and lise, your wife?”
and like him. write and tell me how he receives you. if he is all
and like a practical petersburg lady who knows how to make the most of
and light, joyous steps. at the visitors’ request the young people
and lifted it to his lips, threw back his head, and raised his free hand
and let us talk sensibly while there is still time, be it a day or be it
and legs always fell into unnatural positions.
and leaving large sums of money with them for alms, went away to his
and kutúzov smiled in a way that seemed to say, “you are quite at
and kissing her, and then he left the room with rapid steps.
and kissed her.
and kinds of dessert, in order to send a full description of the dinner
and kámenski the latter was preferred. the general comes to us,
and julie were saying to one another. the governess kept looking round
and i won’t allow it to be said!”
“and i will tell you this,” prince andrew interrupted in a tone of
“and i was looking for you,” said natásha running out to him. “i
and ivy, with a gleam of white shoulders, glossy hair, and sparkling
“and it must seem to you,” said borís flushing slightly, but not
“and i tell you, rostóv, that you must apologize to the colonel!”
“and i tell you, don’t you dahe to do it!” shouted denísov,
and is nothing unworthy of you, but it will comfort me. promise,
and is it worth tormenting oneself, when one has only a moment of life
“and i should so like to thank uncle once for all his kindness to me
“and i should be ashamed to write to borís. i’m not going to.”
and irritation, though controlledly calm as a man is at the approach of
and irrepressibly, as water does in a creek. had the russian army been
“and i only...”
and involuntarily noticed the carefully washed seams of the scar near
and in two twists of the hand he breaks them to smithereens and installs
and into ladies’ society with an affectation of doing so against his
and interests before him! “yes, they have taken a wise decision,” he
and interesting person to the visitors and that nowhere else was the
and insignificant people. but the army, the russian army, everyone
and in proof of the conclusiveness of his opinion all the wrinkles
and in order to press them again to her lips, she slightly pushed away
and inevitably he lapsed into falsehood. if he had told the truth to his
and indulgently to smooth with it the heart of his neighbor. as to the
and indeed everybody in the room looked with a smile of pleasure at the
and in a whisper, with a strangely unsmiling face: “come to dinner
and in a way of which our last campaign can give you no idea. half the
and impossible, he again glanced timidly at her. she did not sit down
and immediately túshin, with a short pipe in the corner of his mouth
“and i might have been in his place!” thought rostóv, and hardly
and i’ll write to her myself, and we will kill the fatted calf.”
“and i know why she’d be ashamed,” said pétya, offended by
“and i?” he said; “do you think it is easier for me? i am as worn
“and i had no idea!...” exclaimed princess mary. “ah, andrew, i
“and, if your excellency will allow me to express my opinion,” he
“and if this aim coincides with yours, you may enter our brotherhood
“and if i should meet his majesty before i meet the commander in
“and if he asks about the losses?”
and i don’t now.”
“and i did not know... nicholas... my darling!...”
and i beg you all to help me. brünn’s attractions must be shown him.
“and i am still arguing with your husband. i can’t understand why he
and hurriedly removed.
    * “and hurrah for the whole world!”
and how the well-trained horse looked round unconcerned and did not
“and how she dances! what gwace!” he said again after a pause.
and how has it ended? i was against this marriage even then and foretold
and how happy i may be with such a friend and such a husband! husband?
“and how do you get on with the officers?” inquired zherkóv.
“and how could you believe he was my lover? why? because i like
and horses) had it not occurred to rostóv to flourish his whip before
and horse guards’ jacket, shouting something to a pale, white
and his visit to brünn. at the door he found a vehicle half full of
and his thoughts followed one another with extraordinary clearness and
and his one division, and even then mortier slips through your fingers!
and his lips were smiling. though the commander was occupied in giving
and his kind, intelligent face rather pale, rushed out of the shed
and his head tilting yet further back. “why is it so long?” thought
and his forehead became smooth again, he bowed his head respectfully,
and his eyebrows were lifted, then his eyebrows would descend and
and his back drawn in, slightly swinging one foot, and, with his head a
and hills in the distance—and despite the fact that the inhabitants
and he would marry her. so her future shaped itself in mademoiselle
and he wore a crumpled hussar cap stuck jauntily back on one side of his
and he walked on.
and he smiled approvingly, evidently pleased with the cadet. rostóv
and he saw above him the remote, lofty, and everlasting sky. he knew it
and he sat down again, paying no more attention to his daughter, who was
and her son. she had opportunities of sending her letters to the grand
and her short, downy, smiling lip lifted when she began to speak just as
and her look seemed to say: “well, it is your own fault.”
and her face was tearful.
and here’s the little shop where we used to buy gingerbread! can’t
and he released bolkónski’s arm to indicate that he had now quite
“and here, friend, the people are quite beggarly. there they all
and helped him. i know and understand what a spice that would add to the
and he looked on this visit to a churlish old man and a rich and ugly
and he looked at pierre with a mocking, challenging expression. he
and he left the room, followed by the low but ringing laughter of the
and he indicated with his delicate fingers what he meant by a pinch.
and he felt a nervous shudder run down his spine. but the mere thought
and he experienced tenfold the joy of living, as he had not done since
and he doesn’t care at all for julie.”
and he caught the bear, took it in his arms, lifted it from the ground,
and he amuses himself setting a policeman astride a bear! for shame,
and health. all who talked to her, and at each word saw her bright smile
and he also passed on with the wagon. then came some merry soldiers who
and he again turned to pierre.
and he again began speaking about indifferent matters, about sergéy
and having got rid of this young man who did not know how to behave, she
and, having glanced round the room, prince andrew turned to rostóv,
and having done this he rode back.
and have seen fräulein mathilde.”
and hastened to reassure him.
and hardly able to restrain his jerky movements, and from the way he
and happy though uneasy face of pierre. it seemed as if the very light
and happiness the victory had afforded him had been now left in the
and happiness... “i should wish for nothing else, nothing, if only i
and handsome young man and woman for one another. and this human feeling
and handing on to posterity of a certain important mystery... which
and hair, without looking at her eyes, with such contempt that the
and had taken him to vienna and given him the more serious commissions.
and had remained away till he was twenty. when he returned to moscow
and had more than once impressed on his daughter that michael ivánovich
and had an opinion about everything), but above all at his capacity for
and gun carriages, the tramp of horses, the crack of whips, shouts, the
and groans mingled in a general hubbub, then the firing died down.
and grieved had he chosen not to see them. these different
and good-humored laughter from the soldiers that it infected the french
and glad sparkle. prince andrew had grown thinner, paler, and more
and get away to attend to her duties as hostess. but pierre now
and galloped off. but no sooner had he left bagratión than his courage
and galloped along the line. at first he rode along the line of
and fussily in the easy chair, “how is it annette never got married?
and frowning brows stood a hundred paces away from them in his helmet
and from the different ranks some twenty men ran to the front. a
and fro, and dispatching of adjutants—was confined to the emperor’s
and frequent blushes she told him she was very sorry about their past
and frenchmen running toward it. higher up stood some russian infantry,
and for the issue of the whole battle. “but be that what it may,”
and, flushed and smiling, plumped down on the floor. the countess was
and flask, and swung his heavy person easily into the saddle.
and fighting, not at all as the gunner and the frenchman with frightened
and fencing from the village.
and fell on his hands. the others outstripped him.
and fell on his back. he opened his eyes, hoping to see how the struggle
and fell into the column to the measure of “left... left!” “close
and feeling at that moment. “is there anything at all behind that
and fear.
“and fancy! she refused him quite definitely!” adding, after a
and extending its neck, galloped on yet faster. hardly had the horse
and explained to them his intentions and wishes. he told them that steps
and examined him with attentive curiosity. the cossack was dead, but the
and every strap in place, and shone with cleanliness. and not only
and everybody had to serve, he took a post under his father in the
and even princess mary felt herself pleasantly made to share in these
and even now never says a word against him. those pranks in petersburg
and ecstasy such as he had never before known. every trait and every
and drowsy kutúzov, who reluctantly played the part of chairman and
and dropped it again behind her. prince andrew recognized her without
and drew it downwards as if wishing to ascertain whether it was firmly
and, drawing up an armchair for prince vasíli, pointed to it and began
and drawing up again next moment when her face broke into a smile of
“and do you know, my dear fellow, it seems to me that bonaparte has
“and do you feel quite calm?” rostóv asked.
and don’t forget to give him the rostóvs’ invitation. they ask him
and dólokhov swore at him in coarse soldier’s russian and shouldering
and dólokhov’s angry cry.
and, doing so, groaned involuntarily.
and distinctly. in the valley he saw before him something like a river,
and dissatisfied about something and that at headquarters they were
and dismounted slowly among the guns. he delivered the order and did
and disheveled, beat and turned the heavy feather bed for the third
“and did you give me tobacco yesterday? that’s just it, friend! ah,
“and didn’t hippolyte tell you?” asked prince vasíli, turning to
and devotion, or of weariness and hope of resting before long. prince
and desperation as though he were at that moment facing some great
and denísov went to the bed to get the purse from under the pillow.
and denísov rode up to a group that had stopped near rostóv, composed
and decided in his own mind that all was as it should be, and that in
and dark. the officers were hurriedly drinking tea and breakfasting, the
   and dare not herculean russians trouble...
and count rostóv, glancing angrily at the author who went on reading
and count ilyá rostóv became more and more moved, more glass was
and countess alike—turned to look at her as if wondering why she had
and could not answer. “can something bad have happened to me?”
and continual expectation of some good, always in front of him but never
and connections he belonged to the groups of old and honored guests, and
and conflict with which he had trodden the enns bridge, but with the
and complacently seated himself on the sofa.
and compelled to act under conditions of war unlike anything that had
and commendation are essential, just as grease is necessary to wheels
and colonel looked sternly and significantly at one another like two
and character but alike in the social circle to which they belonged.
and ceased talking when véra entered. sónya and natásha looked at
and carefully placed her in an easy chair.
and calling the nurse began giving the medicine. the child screamed
and by a servant who passed out on tiptoe without heeding them. they
and broke it up. in this action for the first time trophies were taken:
and borís says it is quite possible. you know i have told him all about
and borís. he is his godson,” she added, her tone suggesting that
and borís, having apparently relieved himself of an onerous duty and
and blue riding breeches, who were swarming near the bridge, and then at
and bilíbin unwrinkled his temple, feeling that the dilemma was
and besides this, nine men in every thousand for the militia. everywhere
and being well disposed toward borís, who had managed to please him the
and began to speak.
and began firing them at túshin’s battery.
and began dancing round the room with it.
and back, galloped strenuously forward, and with a dashing salute reined
and awkwardly over the parquet floor of the reception room, not knowing
“and at your age what secrets can there be between natásha and
and at the people in it. round a long table covered with black sat some
and at last became silent.
and a timid smile.
and at every word he added: “but don’t hurt my little horse!” and
and, as you know my principles, i refer it to you.”
and as they went along he was told allegories of the toils of his
“and ask whether sharpshooters have been posted,” he added. “what
and asking them all to be seated began:
and ask him, i!... does that satisfy you?”
and, as it might seem, of the obligations to her he had taken on
and as he went on became more and more animated. he told them of his
and as he waved his arms to impersonate the policeman, his portly form
and artillerymen’s bonfires. to the left, not far from the farthest
“and are the hours the same? and the walks in the avenues? and the
and are drawn along.”
and anxiety they threw their burden of sorrow on one another and
and anna mikháylovna (who found it necessary to accompany him) was
and angry faces struggled for the mop: how differently do those clouds
and anatole met in the conservatory.
and amusingly. “and why not marry her if she really has so much money?
and amuse themselves as girls of thirteen and fourteen do who are
and amused as he was when he put on the little icon. “did he believe?
and a muffled shout almost behind them in the wood. the french had
“and am i to bring the gypsy girls along with him?” asked nicholas,
and am at your service to help you nurse my uncle. i imagine what you
and also that murat’s mistake would very soon be discovered, proved
and all you have been doing on your estates.”
     * and all that follows therefrom.
and all his mercy to one who is blind, or who shuts his eyes that he may
and all his comrades of the guards by his appearance—that of a
and all along the french line on the hill fires flared up and the
and a letter; it is a premium for the man who writes a history of
and again she began to sob, more bitterly than before. natásha lifted
and again proceeded to gallop along the line, penetrating farther and
and again jumping up, dashed so impetuously forward that it seemed as if
and again it turned uselessly in the same place.
and after staying but a short time with the tsar went to see the grand
and a flask, and nesvítski was treating some officers to pies and real
and affronts matter? i love and forgive everybody now.”
and a few here and there with powdered hair and in russian kaftáns.
and advantages of service under members of the imperial family.
and, addressing him, again used the epithet “young man” that was
and acquaintances, invitations, and social occupations were so numerous
and a convoy of croats. beside kutúzov sat an austrian general, in
and accept the offer,” but before he had time to say it natásha began
and a castle with a park surrounded by the waters of the confluence of
and a bullet whizzing high up in the mist with a plaintive sound passed
and abruptly.
and about nikólenka, twice asked when the last letter had been received
and a ball flew whistling over the heads of the hussar squadron. the
ancestor of the bolkónskis. prince andrew, looking again at that
an austrian officer in a white uniform with green plumes in his hat
an attack. but when they had marched for about an hour in the dense fog,
anatole with his swaggering air strode up to the window. he wanted to
“anatole used to come to borrow money from her and used to kiss her
anatole turned to the englishman and taking him by one of the buttons
anatole stopped him.
anatole’s expression, though his eyes were fixed on her, referred not
anatole returned smiling to the ladies.
anatole lived, pierre entered the lighted porch, ascended the stairs,
anatole kissed the old man, and looked at him with curiosity and perfect
anatole is no genius, but he is an honest, goodhearted lad; an excellent
anatole is accompanying me on his way to the army, so i hope you will
anatole, having taken off his overcoat, sat with arms akimbo before a
anatole embracing the frenchwoman and whispering something to her. with
anatole came up to her. she still could not see him. she only felt a
anatole and pierre.
anatole. “ah, i know, i know,” she said with a sly glance, “your
an assiduous and modest mien, and stooping over the outspread map
an anonymous volunteer, and david widger
an allowance of ten thousand rubles. he had a dim perception of the
an air of importance that showed that she felt she quite knew what she
a musketry fire at the french cavalry that was pursuing our troops. it
amusing, now girlishly enchanting.
amusing,” he continued, with a sudden, good-natured laugh, “was that
am staying in for your sake,” and so on. and though prince vasíli,
a movement. with a pleasant smile berg related how the grand duke
a most serious, deferential, and innocent expression.
a mop, his legs far apart, sprang to the wheel; while number two with
among the young men introduced by rostóv one of the first was
among the women!”
among them the staff officer and zherkóv, who had been twice sent to
among them. on my word i’d give five years of my life for it!”
among the gentlemen of the suite, rostóv noticed bolkónski, sitting
among the field guns on the brow of the hill the general in command of
among the children, in the special sense they attached to it.) “why
a moment, “yes, bring me seven hundred rubles, yes! but mind, don’t
a moment. the sick man was given something to drink, there was a
a moment, and, evidently understanding what rostóv hinted at, seized
am i to go?” thought nicholas, and went again into the dancing room
a minute later sónya came in with a frightened, guilty, and scared
“a million all but one!” replied a waggish soldier in a torn coat,
amid the square masses of troops standing motionless as if turned to
amid the smoke of their campfires, the greater part of whom were
amid the smoke, deafened by the incessant reports which always made him
amid people of whom he was weary had gone, instantly every thought of
amiably into his face, evidently wishing to soften the rudeness of his
a member of the hofkriegsrath from vienna had come to kutúzov the day
amélie” (mademoiselle bourienne) “thinks i could be jealous of her,
a meeting with napoleon. to the joy and pride of the whole army, a
ambassadors to compliment the usurper.”
amazed the french themselves. rostóv was horrified to hear later that
a man who on a hot day takes a final run before plunging into the water.
a man oppressed by business, weary and suffering, who yet would not, for
am.”
always won. however much he drank, he never lost his clearheadedness.
always surrounded by the same decks, masts, and rigging of his ship, so
always shall, and i want nothing more.”
always poking fun at me.... ah, well! let him!” and he began reading
always in one direction, humming with whispers and talk and the sound of
(always followed by a ball flying past and striking the earth, a man, a
always dragging it in one direction. he tried to get away from them, but
always clear and simple, so she is not stupid. she never was abashed and
always called natásha a cossack) and she stroked the child’s arm as
always better to “bow too low than not bow low enough.” so the
always be the chief desire of everyone else.
always be my daughters’ first confidante, and that if nicholas, with
always, always anxious! especially just at this age, so dangerous both
always afraid, came into her room with a peculiarly restless and malign
always accompanied any reference of hers to the imperial family, “has
although the hall porter saw someone’s carriage standing at the
although prince vasíli listened reluctantly and not very politely
although iogel did not acknowledge this to be the real mazurka, everyone
although in female society anatole usually assumed the role of a man
altered in shape by its pressure on the table, now at her still more
altar with her. how and when this would be he did not know, he did not
altar on which lay a testament and a skull. round it stood seven large
also. yes, my opinion, and only my opinion,” added prince bolkónski,
also to the soldiers. looking at their boots he several times shook his
also the abbé morio. do you know that profound thinker? he has been
also in french:
already visible. suddenly something like a birch broom seemed to sweep
already seen the young master, and, before he had reached the drawing
already seated in the drawing room. the count took the gentlemen into
already prepared...”
already passed. through the terrible and deafening roar of those voices,
already opening a door.
already lost him. he bent over him and, as his sister had taught him,
already known in moscow and that the ladies about his father—who were
already in any case dishonored by being unable to fulfill the great and
already, but then he cannot know what i think of him and may imagine
already been choosing a career for three months, and had not decided
already.”
aloud to him and being friends with princess mary. mademoiselle
a loud, monotonous voice began to read out the dispositions for the
aloud.
a look of complete absent-mindedness, kept rubbing the bridge of his
a look at you, your excellency.”
along the broad country road, edged on both sides by trees, came a high,
a long-awaited moment. he was firmly convinced that this was the day of
alone without any allies, it might perhaps have been a long time before
alone with her, so rostóv, now that he had attained what he had longed
alone with hélène in the little drawing room where they were sitting.
alone together, prince vasíli announced his hopes and wishes to the old
alone... that tremendous fortune... and what is his life worth? it’s a
alone, in which there was something more significant than in the general
alone, but because of everyone, it must inevitably come about. they are
alone at last gains a real victory, destroying the spell of the
alone applying her handkerchief to her eyes. at last she rang.
alone and in full view of the emperor.
“alone all the same, without my friends.... and he expects me not to
almost time,” she added, giving pierre to understand that they were
almost frightened, eyes as she passed him.
almost dragging him to the window. “that money is denísov’s; you
almost at the middle of the table. facing them sat pierre, beside prince
ally. we shall therefore confidently await the moment when the imperial
all your valuables.”
“all wight! all wight!” shouted denísov. “it’s no good making
all were then more confident of victory than the winning of two battles
all were silent. túshin appeared at the threshold and made his way
all were seated again, turned with his kindly smile to rostóv.
“all well?” asked rostóv, drawing away his arm.
allusion to the name of the sovereign. three hundred persons took their
all this shame and sorrow, but wanted now to play with him as a cat does
all this, rose and approached the princess. he seemed unable to bear the
all this is not right, it’s not right! you may take offense or not but
“all this had to be and could not be otherwise,” thought pierre,
all this end?” thought rostóv, looking at the changing shadows before
all the unmarried ladies and even the married ones except the very
all the soldiers’ remarks related to the two young ones. every face
all these dreams melted and merged into the chaos and darkness of
“all the same! they say this one is the commander of all the emperor
“all the same, one is afraid! oh, you clever people,” said a third
“all the same, it was bilíbin who found a suitable form for the
“all the same, i love and value nothing but triumph over them all, i
all the old feminine arts. but as soon as the prince had gone her face
all the moscow ladies have conspired to give him all their sons as
all the guns, without waiting for orders, were being fired in the
all the figures on it: the sun, the moon, a hammer, a plumb line, a
all the comforts of cleanliness and all the refinements of life, prince
all the advantages were on our side. our enormous forces, undoubtedly
all that would be required of him.
all that the peasants had has been eaten up. i myself will remain in
all that has happened.”
all sorts of tempting wares. the pávlograds held feast after feast,
all sides, moved across the bridge.
all rostóv’s cards were beaten and he had eight hundred rubles scored
“all right. they are good fellows. and how have you wriggled onto the
“all right,” said pierre, still smiling in the same way. a feeling
“all right!” said dólokhov, having finished the addition. “all
“all right. fifty imperials ... that i will drink a whole bottle of
“all right, all right. we’ll talk it over,” replied prince andrew.
“all right, all right, we’ll see!”
“all right, all right!” said the old count. “he always flares up!
“all right, all right,” replied the commander, and turned to major
“all right, all right,” interrupted the prince, and laughing his
“all right, all right!” he said to prince andrew, and turned to a
all regular germans.”
all quite forgetting the danger and all regard for self-preservation, he
all pale and exchanged looks in silence.
“allow me to look at your purse,” he said in a low, almost
“allow me to give you a piece of advice. when you reach the capital,
“allow me to ask,” he said, “are you a mason?”
“allow me, sir,” said prince andrew in russian in a cold,
allow him personally to express the deep respect that, emulating his
allowed to speak, turns to auersperg with feigned astonishment (he is a
allowed to pass by special permission. the eyes of all the soldiers
allowed, i have hastened to take all steps to that end. may i have
all on one plan, for hospitals, schools, and almshouses, which were soon
all my trouble will have been thrown away.... i shall not be able to
all moscow, that everyone will say that you, drunk and not knowing what
all moscow talks of nothing but war. one of my two brothers is already
all moscow repeated prince dolgorúkov’s saying: “if you go on
all make out: was it a glade in the wood lit up by the moon, or some
all like that; one can’t unmarry. don’t be afraid; i won’t tell
all, like children of my own, as you know.”
all its details to the austrian general weyrother: a lucky accident had
“all is over,” he thought, and a cold sweat broke out on his
all-important.”
“all i can say, general,” said he with a pleasant elegance
all his wishes were being fulfilled that morning: there was to be a
all his property, not to us his direct heirs, but to pierre.”
all his decisions and intentions. he went to kurágin’s.
all her invitations without exception, written in french, and delivered
all her clothes in petersburg and that heaven knew what she would have
all her attention. he seemed to her kind, brave, determined, manly, and
“all have secrets of their own,” answered natásha, getting warmer.
all four, like a flock of scared birds, got up and left the room.
all for his relations was the fact that there was still a possibility of
“alley! alley!” said the cossack, touching the prisoner’s arm to
all expecting it, they are so sure that it will happen that i cannot, i
all done casually in a moment of anger, of illness, and was afterwards
all commanders of divisions the right to shoot marauders, but i much
all be killed,” a sergeant was saying angrily and reproachfully.
all began to run and bustle, and rostóv saw coming up the road behind
all. at last the sleigh bore to the right, drew up at an entrance, and
all as they should be? that’s right! the great thing is the serving,
all around were loving eyes glistening with tears of joy, and all around
all are struck by the justness of his views, but no one undertakes to
all, and your future depends on him. remember that, my dear, and be nice
all, and without promising to help me?” thought pierre, rising with
all along the sides of the road fallen horses were to be seen, some
all.”
alive—live: tomorrow you’ll die as i might have died an hour ago.
alive could understand or explain.
alive and suffering from a burning, lacerating pain in his head.
“a little wound, but he has been made an officer; he is well now, he
“a little volcano!”
a little to their right and behind the accountant, crashed to earth with
a little later when he went up to the large circle, anna pávlovna said
a little earth crumbled from the bank under the horse’s hind hoofs.
“aline,” he said to his wife, “go and see what they are about.”
alike, felt that the commander did not himself know what to do, and this
alighted from his horse and whose big body was jammed against the
alight, and let her pass into the house before him. old tíkhon, wearing
a life i can’t decide or think properly about anything. one’s head
alien face of that man, his bayonet hanging down, holding his breath,
alexéevich. loud knocks were heard at the door. pierre took the bandage
alexander was clearly heard. he gave the words of greeting, and the
alexander unpleasantly, he rode up and saluted.
alexander’s guards,” said the first one, indicating a russian
alexander prince vasíli had risen to high position and honors. and now,
a letter of recommendation he had brought from pierre had become
a letter has been written to the emperor in which the count asks for
“a letter from nikólenka! i’m sure of it!” exclaimed natásha,
a letter at once, and she’ll come here and all will be explained, or
alert than he had done the day before. only his eyes gleamed feverishly
alcohol, and sounds of voices and shouting in the distance.
a laugh still more so, he quitted the table.
alarm, supposing these words to mean that the young count was displeased
alarm lest something should have happened to the child while he was
a large udder was attached to the cart behind. a woman with an unweaned
a languor of motion and speech, resulting from weakness, gave her a
a lack of bread, to move farther into the interior of prussia, for only
a kind no longer in general use. prince andrew remembered the story of
a keg, filled one after another the canteen lids held out to him. the
a joke he had heard in vienna and which he had been trying all that
air, and disobeying orders. the moral hesitation which decided the fate
aim was to show general weyrother—who had read his dispositions with
aim—to establish peace in europe on firm foundations—has now decided
aim?” said he quietly and quickly.
aim remaining for him was to effect a junction with the forces that were
aid of his servant, and not looking at pierre. with a pair of felt boots
aides-de-camp to inquire after the count’s health, came himself
aide-de-camp, “dat one liffs after de sird stroke.”
aide-de-camp and was duly conducted to pay his respects to the aunt and
aide-de-camp, and sat down in the lady’s chair, placing his huge hands
aide-de-camp.
aide-de-camp.
“ah, you’ve come here too, young man!” he said, smiling and
“ah, your excellency,” put in zherkóv, his eyes fixed on the
“ah, you’re up already,” said denísov, entering the room.
“ah, you are sending off a letter, princess? i have already dispatched
“ah, yes! that’s a whole long story! how are you going to speak to
“ah yes, my dear,” said the count, addressing the visitor and
“ah, yes! do tell us all about it, vicomte,” said anna pávlovna,
“ah yes, and what else did he say that’s unpleasant?” thought
“ah, wostóv,” he cried noticing the cadet’s bright face,
“ah! what joy for the princess!” exclaimed she: “at last! i must
“ah, what have you done to me?” it still seemed to say, and prince
“ah what a calamity! you say the affair was decisive? but mortier is
“ah, váska!” joyfully replied nesvítski. “what’s up with
“ah, timókhin!” said he, recognizing the red-nosed captain who had
“ah, those damned germans! they don’t know their own country!”
“ah, there will be, and there are, many more such girls somewhere whom
“ah, that’s the way to talk french,” said the picket soldiers.
“ah, that’s always the way!” said nesvítski with a wave of the
“ah! that’s a good thing. so, my dear boy, you wish to serve the
“ah, that is just what i tell him!” said she. “i don’t
“ah! telyánin! how d’ye do? they plucked me last night,” came
“ah, she is indeed a darling! i’ll send her to you.”
“ah!” said kutúzov. “i hope this will be a lesson to you. do your
“ah!...” said kutúzov glancing at bolkónski as if by this
“ah, princess mary!” he said suddenly in an unnatural voice,
“ah, prince! in what sad circumstances we meet again! and how is our
a host welcomes an honored guest. he reported that his regiment had
a horrified expression on his handsome face, anatole looked at princess
a hollow between two hills near the village of pratzen, the russian
a hoarse voice to the men to look to their pistols. he rode up to
a hoar frost now turning to dew, but in the valleys it still lay like a
“ah, my love,” answered anna mikháylovna, “god grant you never
“ah, my friend!” she said, touching his arm as she had done her
“ah, my friend!” said he, taking pierre by the elbow; and there was
“ah, my dear vicomte,” put in anna pávlovna, “l’urope” (for
“ah, my dear,” said the countess, “my life is not all roses
“ah, my dear prince! i could not have a more welcome visitor,”
“ah, my dear, my dear!” he began, rising and taking her by both
“ah, my dear, i hardly knew you,” said anna mikháylovna with a
“ah! my dear, i am afraid you and your monk are wasting your
“ah, my dear! he is so rich, and we are so poor!”
“ah, my dear friend, he is very unfortunate,” she said. “if what
“ah, my dear friend! forget the wrongs that may have been done you.
“ah, my dear fellow, what a battle we have gained! god grant that
“ah! my dear!... ah! mary!...” they suddenly exclaimed, and then
“ah, my boy, my head’s in a whirl!” said the old man with a smile,
“ah, money, count, money! how much sorrow it causes in the world,”
“ah! mon ami, i only pray, and hope that god will hear me.
“ah, may the devil take you and evewybody,” were the last words
“ah, madam, it is a great sacrament,” replied the priest, passing
“ah, it can’t be avoided!” thought nicholas, for the first and
“ah, is it you, cousin?”
“ah, i know what it is.”
“ah! here’s the warrior! wants to vanquish buonaparte?” said the
“ah, here she is!” he exclaimed laughing. “my pet, whose name day
“ah! he is alive,” said napoleon. “lift this young man up and
“ah, from vienna? very good. later, later!”
a heavenly feeling. borís was telling his new friend pierre who the
“ah, don’t talk to me! last winter she wheedled herself in here and
“ah, dear friend,” replied princess mary, “i have asked you never
“ah, count rostóv!” exclaimed pierre joyfully. “then you are his
“ah, but you won’t talk politics to me like annette!”
“ah! breathing again, breathing!” he muttered to himself.
“ah, bondarénko, dear friend!” said he to the hussar who rushed up
a handsome adjutant. this was prince bolkónski. beside him was his
“ah, and here’s nicholas!” cried natásha, running up to him.
ague.
agreed or disagreed and was satisfied or not with the arrangements. next
agreeable and interesting work. his face expressed more satisfaction
a good thing for proprietors who perish morally, bring remorse upon
a good friend, an adjutant general and an excellent fellow, prince
a good example, yet here you are without your boots! the alarm will be
a gold snuffbox on which was a portrait. in the middle of one of the
ago have joined the archduke. and believe me on my honour that to me
aglow with dazzling light—as if he had only awaited this to begin the
a glimpse of her, she seemed still more lovely. she was a charming girl
agitated.
a girl, such tact, such masterly perfection of manner! it comes from
“a geography lesson!” he muttered as if to himself, but loud enough
a general engagement,” repeated dolgorúkov, evidently prizing this
age...”
again when he passed to another group whose center was the abbé.
again turning to the count. “zat is how ve old hussars look at it, and
“against your will he will save and have mercy on you and bring you
against the wall, and the second of the three sisters rushed out
against the pillow.
against the muslin of the curtain.
against them and winding down over the uneven ground. one could already
against the french?”
again struck up, the count and countess kissed, and the guests, leaving
against one of the columns in a respectful attitude implying that he,
against his right, flew round again in a circle. natásha guessed what
again shook with a deep ringing laugh, the laugh of one who always eats
again see the sun, this water, that gorge!...”
again rostóv looked intently into borís’ eyes and sighed. berg
again recalled all the details of the victory and his own calm courage
again on the sofa. they were silent for a while.
again on all the bright faces of the squadron the serious expression
again joined her. they began talking in whispers, but their talk broke
again. i must go there, prince, and scare them a bit. it won’t take a
again going on tiptoe to the reception room where they had left prince
again getting in front of the first line as he had done when the horse
again expressing deep sorrow.
again drawn out in a thin line the musketeers were descending the hill,
again began to laugh. she evidently felt unable to look at him
again, as soon as all turned toward him, excused himself and said no
again are all running back somewhere, and i shall run with them, and it,
again, and the little princess curiously noting the impression
again and remained for a while with the ismáylov regiment.
again, and let his head sink still lower.
again.
again.
after washing and dressing, prince andrew came into the diplomat’s
after two in the morning, thoughts come and i can’t sleep but toss
after troops and begged for seats on the gun carriages. the jaunty
after the soup the prince became more genial.
after these words, the mason, as if tired by his long discourse, again
“after the next affair... epaulettes.”
after the murder of the duc there was one martyr more in heaven and one
after their active service, were stationed near olmütz and the camp
after the fatigues and impressions of the journey, his reception, and
after the battle but send a courier to petersburg with news of a
after the austerlitz campaign prince andrew had firmly resolved not
after the attack, bogdánich would come up to him as he lay wounded and
after that anna pávlovna led up to the courage and firmness of the king
after tea, the company went into the sitting room and princess mary was
after supper pierre with his partner followed the others into the
after receiving this news late in the evening, when he was alone in his
after receiving her visitors, the countess was so tired that she gave
after passing some austrian troops he noticed that the next part of the
after natásha down the passage into the sitting room with flushed face
after losing her own father. she is very good-natured, and my father
after losing half their men were retreating in disorderly confused
after looking at him napoleon smiled.
after inspecting the carriage himself and seeing the trunks put in, he
after his reception by the austrians, to speak if not in russian
after his journey and the campaign during which he had been deprived of
after his interview with his wife pierre left for petersburg. at the
after his illness he looked rather thinner that day than on the field
after his dismissal from headquarters zherkóv had not remained in the
after five o’clock it was only at the augesd dam that a hot cannonade
after dinner, he went to see his daughter-in-law. the little princess
after dinner. he called natásha and asked her what was the matter.
after denísov’s departure, rostóv spent another fortnight in moscow,
after a while the moving mass became agitated, someone rode past on
after a while he re-entered it as if to snuff the candles, and, seeing
“after austerlitz!” said prince andrew gloomily. “no, thank you
after another greeting the tsar with the strains of the march, and then
after anna mikháylovna had driven off with her son to visit count cyril
after a few minutes’ bustle beside the high bedstead, those who had
a friend older than himself and whom he respected. his whole time
a fresh wave of the flying mob caught him and bore him back with it.
a french soldier tugged at the other. he could distinctly see the
“a french pancake,” answered zherkóv.
a frenchman), “l’urope ne sera jamais notre alliée sincère.” *
a freak of fate made the impossible possible. the success of the trick
afraid of a general battle. his hour has come! mark my words!”
a fortnight ago he would have had a paymaster’s clerk at yúkhnovna
a fortnight after the letter prince vasíli’s servants came one
a former war. “the emperor will teach your suvara as he has taught the
a foreigner, in spite of all differences of faith, understood the full
a foraging expedition. rostóv in his cadet uniform, with a jerk to his
a footman came in to summon borís—the princess was going. pierre, in
a flag of truce, demanding an audience with the russian emperor, was
a first introduction and betrays a consciousness of the impropriety of
a fine place! why are you not eating anything, gentlemen?” nesvítski
“a fine mess we’ve made of it!” he remarked.
“a fine lad! my word! a fine lad!... his father lies on his deathbed
a fight led murat to try to deceive kutúzov in a similar way. meeting
afflicted by the death of the father he had hardly known), and her
affirmatively.) “when you hear a knock at the door, you will uncover
affectionately.
affectionate letters to your parents, and if you think you may be
affectionate eyes, now came up and took his arm. before he looked round
affectionate as it was—expressed a sense of his own superiority.
affected languor and indolence. he now looked like a man who has time
affectation. princess mary ran out of the room to fetch mary
affair was over and, though not big, had been a successful engagement.
affairs of honor and had twice regained his commission.
affairs and of pierre himself in those early days. from the death of
affair public. you are offended at being put on duty a bit, but why not
affair of the thabor bridge, at vienna.... they have crossed without
affair. i am her father.”
affair, and about some ladies they both knew.
a few steps, turned, cut a caper, brought her little feet sharply
a few minutes later the chief forces of the french army moved rapidly
a few hours ahead of the french who were approaching hollabrünn from
a few fir trees.
a fellow diplomat, “that the chancellor told him flatly that his
a feeling of contemptuous ill will. he snorted whenever he mentioned
a father could for their education, and they have both turned out fools.
advise you to appeal to rumyántsev through prince golítsyn. that would
advice is to let the matter drop. well then, on friday after the review
adve’sawies have wefused a weconciliation, please pwoceed. take your
advantageous match but a splendid, noble fellow... he is my friend...”
advancing to attack the french cavalry that was coming to meet them.
advancing straight toward the inner door.
advancing from russia, without losing his army as mack had done at ulm.
advancing by forced marches toward znaim, which lay sixty-six miles
advancing.”
adroitness and italian play-acting! do you know the tale about him and
   a dreaded foe be thou, kindhearted as a man,
a door of one of the inner rooms opened and one of the princesses, the
admitted that he had been to blame, did not lift his eyes from the
admit—he had almost been jealous on his wife’s account, was the butt
admired his regiment, rejoiced in it, and that his whole mind was
administered. come.”
adjutant, zherkóv, an orderly officer, the staff officer on duty,
adjutant whom he so hated.
adjutants met him with news of the successful result of the action.
adjutants.”
adjutant, or really let the matter drop, was the question that worried
adjutant on kutúzov’s staff, but he does everything alone. the next
adjutant by his elaborate courtesy appeared to wish to ward off any
adjutant.
a dinner where there was no place for him. in the next hut there was a
adieu, prince! may god support you...”
“adieu, mary,” said he gently to his sister, taking her by the hand
“adieu, ma bonne,” answered prince vasíli turning away from her.
adieu, dear and kind friend; may our divine saviour and his most holy
a despot. who is right and who is wrong? no one! but if you are
a desperate cry and such mad, drunken determination that, taken by
a desire to do something for them, a desire for their approval.—so i
a deed to sign for the princess’ benefit.
address rostóv by his title, as if in recognition of his confession.
addressing the mother.
addressing the englishman.
addressing the black-mustached denísov with servile deference.
addressing the austrian general, “i have the honor to congratulate
addressing lorrain in french which he pronounced badly.
addressing him as ‘usurper and enemy of mankind.’”
addressing her with the careless tone of habitual tenderness natural to
addressing first one, then another. he said he would not have been
address. he is a wise and clever fellow.”
addressed the horseman with the white plumes, evidently suggesting
addressed an edifying exhortation to them. he imagined to himself
adding, “your excellency.”
added: “what a lot of men have been crippled today—frightful!”
added, not noticing his visitor’s sarcastic smile.
added, noticing that prince andrew winced as at an electric shock.
added in a tone admitting of no rejoinder and raising her eyebrows.
added he, munching a pie in his moist-lipped handsome mouth, “would be
added, addressing prince vasíli, and without waiting for an answer she
added.
added.
   a day or two, then bliss unspoilt,
a dark-green dress coat, knee breeches of the color of cuisse de nymphe
a cup of tea?”
actuated by a real desire for peace.
actual phrase used by the vienna cabinet,” said the danish chargé
activity, túshin did not experience the slightest unpleasant sense of
activities of 160,000 russians and french—all their passions, desires,
action they had been wounded. “day before yesterday, on the danube,”
action—he drew the glove from his shapely white hand, made a sign
action did prince bagratión, still hearing the cannonade in the center,
action, as if flying through the air without touching the ground.
action, and more than that, you can’t make me believe that you do not
action, and in the company of well-known, elderly, and respected racing
a cry of: “the general to the third company,” the missing officer
across the table to clink glasses with the count, with the children, and
across the bodies and under a terrible fire from the french, he attended
across, snatched it from his hand and began reading it. pierre looked
across his path. rostóv put his horse to full gallop to get out of the
a crash.
a crafty man convinced of the futility of being cunning with so
acquiring a trotter of his own, very stylish riding breeches of the
acquired though she did not understand its significance. this expression
acquainted with prince andrew bolkónski, through whom he hoped to
acquainted,” and he pressed borís’ hand. “do you know, i have not
acquaintances not only cordially, but even with a shade of deference
acquaintance,” said pierre. and again, glancing at the stranger’s
acquaintance of many persons who might prove useful to him, and by
acquaintance.’ in a word, those gentlemen, gascons indeed, so
acquaintance—he wished him simply a brother and a virtuous instructor.
a coronet) entered the room, calm and majestic, except that there was
a convoy wagon became restive at the end of the bridge, and the whole
a convoy. directly opposite to him came a strange one-horse vehicle,
a consciousness is communicated is very difficult to define, but it
a company smile but was evidently tormented by jealousy; now she turned
a company commander, a fine round-faced man, with a stupid and happy
a commanding officer’s quarters, the regiment began to move: the
a commander in chief. as it was considered that the austerlitz success
a comforting belief in future life, retribution, recompense, and
a closely written letter of two sheets from bilíbin. he folded it up
a cloak, waiting for the conversation to finish. they listened to
a clear blue sky, and the sun’s vast orb quivered like a huge hollow,
aches, and one spends all one’s money. he asked me for tonight, but i
a chance to escape, or to trick us, now that we certainly have him in
a certain house—that was another matter and quite the thing for a
a ceremonial march past him, and rostóv on bedouin, recently purchased
a celebrated miniaturist, and he leaned over the table to take the
accustomed to win in their battles,” he concluded his evidently
accounts is a poor creature.”
account of court and personal considerations tens of thousands of lives,
accountant, a stout, full-faced man, looked around him with a naïve
“according to the scouts the last of them crossed on rafts during the
accorded to the lowest hierarchy in her drawing room. but in spite of
accomplished.
accompanying him to the hall.
accompanied by adjutants, galloped off in different directions, and
accept this challenge or not. anatole did not release him, and though
accept it and fixed the stake himself. nicholas submitted to him, and at
accent. he was breathless with agitation, his face was red, and when
accent—having noticed that zherkóv could still hear him.
accent.
a cavalryman. prince andrew felt that an invisible power was leading him
a case.
absolutely necessary.
absent-minded. when he rose to go, he took up instead of his own, the
absence. little nicholas had been unwell for four days. the coachman who
abroad, the other is with the guards, who are starting on their march
a brilliant match—blushed like a girl.
a bright smile, “so she won’t come down. it is natural in her
above the heights was the dark clear sky, and to the right the vast orb
above his head: “captain túshin! captain!”
above and below him in social standing. something always drew him toward
above all this the lofty sky, formed the chief subjects of his delirious
“about your sister,” ejaculated denísov testily.
about two thirds of a mile was stopped on the highroad. rostóv saw the
about to smile, and once on coming out of the chapel prince andrew and
about to ask their way of an elderly footman who had sprung up as they
about till dawn, because i think and can’t help thinking, just as
about the princess’ health and then led pierre along a stone passage.
about the old prince and criticized him.
about the corners of his mouth read to the austrian general the
about the austrians and their uniforms, about their lines, about
about the army and the battle, and then the talk went off into merry
about ten o’clock rostóv went to the english hotel straight from the
about such a base thing as money, and because their youth was over....
about sergéy kuzmích that interested prince vasíli just then, and
“about my wife... i am ashamed as it is to leave her on your
about mademoiselle bourienne was dreadful. it was untrue to be sure, but
about him or anyone else, and i don’t want anything of the kind.”
about him. he reddened and turned away.
about him and even speak.
about him and about his love for him, letting it be understood that he
about her native land. when he saw the pretty little bourienne, anatole
about her confinement, and how she dreaded it, and had complained of her
about a mile and a half off on the opposite heights. down below, on
about 80,000 went in payments on all the estates to the land bank, about
abominable, quite abominable!” said prince andrew, and he went off to
a bold, free, and easy tone, while in his soul he regarded himself as a
a blue-eyed soldier involuntarily attracted notice. it was dólokhov
able to inflict punishments justly and unjustly. it is those people i
“a bit touched—i always said so.”
a b c of war or of politics, and that bonaparte was an insignificant
abbé morio? he is a most interesting man.”
“a bayonet wound. i remained at the front. remember, your
a battlefield to whom thousands of new and brilliant ideas occur which
a battery to their left. the smoke above it had not yet dispersed. two
     * a bastard.
a banister post stood a tallow candle which guttered in the draft. on
abandoning all hope of a junction with buxhöwden. if kutúzov decided
abandoned in the center?” he inquired, searching with his eyes for
“aah!” rostóv almost screamed lifting both hands to his head. the
     *(4) i just ask you that.
     *(3) hollow.
30,000 went for the upkeep of the estate near moscow, the town house,
     * (2) that their fire gets into his eyes and he forgets that
     *(2) that suits us down to the ground.
     * (2) “it is all very well for that good-for-nothing fellow
    * (2) “hurrah for the austrians! hurrah for the russians!
1. discretion, the keeping of the secrets of the order. 2. obedience to


































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































