he did not finish. just then there was a whistle in the air; nearer and
he did not look at them: he looked only at what was going on in front
he did not regain consciousness till late in the day, when with other
he did not reply.
he did not see, hear, or understand anything clearly. only now and
he did not see him and had no opportunity of seeing him, he often spoke
“he did not shut me up, he said i was telling an untruth.”
he disarmed his hearers.
he discussed estate affairs every day with his chief steward. but
he dressed for dinner. the old prince always dressed in old-fashioned
he drew back and a real tear appeared in his eye.
he drew up his chair, and continued to explain.
he embraced her. she screamed and fell unconscious on his shoulder.
he embraced his daughter, and then again pierre, and kissed him with his
he enlivened the whole party. the wax candles burned brightly, the
he entered the drawing room with his usual alert step, glancing rapidly
“he exists, but to understand him is hard,” the mason began again,
he feels sure he will distinguish himself. he was glancing at everyone
he felt himself to be. at the right beat of the music he looked sideways
he felt that at a single word from that man all this vast mass (and he
he felt that this did not forward matters at all. he felt that these
he filled the girls’ albums with verses and music, and having at last
he. “fine, very fine! you have done up your hair in this new way for
he finished and, getting up, embraced and kissed pierre, who, with tears
he glanced at his cousin and the young lady visitor; and they were both
he glanced round at her. she gave him a passionately angry glance, and
he, going to the door and looking into the nursery.
he got his wound. this pleased rostóv and he began talking about it,
he had already promised prince anatole to come to his gathering;
“he had another stroke about half an hour ago. courage, my
he had been beside the gun, he had heard the voices of the officers
he had been ordered to look for the commander in chief, he could not,
he had but recently left their regiment, rode up to the colonel.
he had evidently not slept that night. he looked about distractedly and
he had just remembered his recent encounter with the doctor’s wife and
he had lain there some time, he was told to get up, and a white leather
he had left. all the others let him go, and he ran to her. when they
he had left petersburg, and wrote enthusiastic letters to his
he had met that evening.
he had not finished the last verse before the young people began to
he had not thought about it until that moment. the officers’ laughter
he had often before, during the last six weeks, remained alone with her,
he had pierre at hand in moscow and procured for him an appointment as
he had ready in his mind, of all he knew and had seen. but the emperor
he had ridden about two miles and had passed the last of the russian
he had said absent-mindedly: “yes, she’s good looking,” he had
he had the hofs-kriegs-wurst-schnapps-rath on his hands. it would have
he had to do, not with fools, but with men who could teach him something
he had too long been thinking of so painfully to the exclusion of all
he half rose, meaning to go round, but the aunt handed him the snuffbox,
“he has been set down. he died,” replied someone.
“he has forty thousand men at most,” replied weyrother, with the
“he has made wills enough!” quietly remarked the princess. “but he
“he has perspired,” said prince andrew.
“he has weported himself sick, he’s to be stwuck off the list
he hated her and was forever sundered from her. despite denísov’s
he heard some french spoken he at once began speaking to the officers,
“he higher iss dan i in rank,” said the german colonel of the
he himself was pining for the dear princess, and how she showed him the
height on which the kiev regiment was stationed, in the hollow where the
height without the smallest effort, his ease contrasting with the heavy
he imagined himself as an enormously tall, powerful man who was throwing
he imagined men such as he had himself been a fortnight ago, and he
he immediately dispatched adjutant general wintzingerode, who was in
he implored rostóv to go on and prepare her.
he indicated a place beside him to his daughter-in-law. a footman moved
he involuntarily remembered how dólokhov, who had fully recovered his
heiress in the same way. all this might, he thought, turn out very well
“he is a great tactician!” said the prince to his son, pointing to
“he is a man in a gray overcoat, very anxious that i should call
he is an aide-de-camp of kutúzov’s and will be here tonight.”
“he is a nervous, bilious subject,” said larrey, “and will not
“he is a very, very nice, honest, and pleasant fellow,” answered
he is better acquainted than anyone else, does not listen to others but
he is bóry’s godfather—and allow him something for his maintenance,
“he is dozing,” said anna mikháylovna, observing that one of the
“he is just the same as ever,” replied anna mikháylovna,
“he is leaving me here, god knows why, when he might have had
“he is no more....”
“he is not to be apprehended by reason, but by life,” said the
“he is one of the most remarkable, but to me most unpleasant of
he is so frank and has so much heart. he is so pure and poetic that
he is uncle’s aide-de-camp, a most brilliant position. he is so
“he is very much altered now,” said anna mikháylovna. “well, as
he jumped up at the sound of her light step.
he kept nodding to show that he understood, anatole went on translating
he knew no one, and despite his smart guardsman’s uniform, all these
he knew this at that moment as surely as if he had been standing at the
“he knows of course what this loss means to me. he can’t want my
he lacked that strength of will which he had known in himself and really
he laughed in his usual dry, cold, unpleasant way, with his lips only
he. “laughing at us old fellows!”
he lay down on the leather sofa in front of a round table, put his big
he lay down on the sofa meaning to fall asleep and forget all that
held. all the commanders of columns were summoned to the commander in
held it below her waist.
held it till evening and have gone in to dinner with it) and drew his
held out his cheek.
held the hand of his betrothed in silence, looking at her beautiful
he leaned his elbows on the table with his pen in his hand and,
he leaned his whole massive body across the table.
he left the room and went to the waiting room where alpátych stood with
hélène.”
hélène, and that thought both alarmed him, as if some obligation were
“hélène!” he said aloud and paused.
hélène nor she at him. but she was just as terribly close to him. he
hélène raised her voice and became more and more excited, “a man
hélène sat silently side by side almost at the bottom of the table, a
hélène. “separate! that’s a thing to frighten me with!”
hélène’s face became terrible, she shrieked and sprang aside. his
hélène’s hand several times. after a while they were left alone
hélène smiled, with a look implying that she did not admit the
hélène’s presence (as a lover should be), but had not yet proposed
hélène still sat talking just as before.
hélène, then she turned to pierre with the same words of welcome
hélène turned to pierre with the beautiful bright smile that she gave
“he lets one win the singles and collahs it as soon as one doubles it;
he listened and heard the sound of approaching horses, and voices
he looked intently and inquiringly into his friend’s eyes, evidently
he looked straight at prince andrew and suddenly unwrinkled his
he looked very grim he said nothing to anyone.
he looked with disdain at the endless confused mass of detachments,
help being aware of it, just as we cannot renew an illusion we have once
“help comes from god alone,” he said, “but such measure of help as
“help him up. sit down, dear fellow, sit down! spread out the cloak,
helplessly and he made a fruitless effort to pull it forward. whether he
helplessly on the sofa.
helplessly spread out, stood with his broad chest directly facing
help, would inform her.
he made himself when going into battle, and he was more amiable to the
he made up his mind that prince andrew had been killed, and though he
he marked the figures in his clear, bold hand.
he meant to do, and abandoning herself to him followed his lead hardly
he met nesvítski, with whom he shared a room, and the wag zherkóv;
he might be, did not expect. he was so used to submitting to prince
he might... not only might but should, have gone up to the sovereign. it
he moved as if to rise. the generals bowed and retired. it was past
“he must first receive the trowel,” whispered one of the brothers.
he must retreat as quickly as possible behind the hollow in the rear,
he must think that i, too, am afraid of him—and in fact i am afraid of
he need only have bent his head a little to have touched them. he was
he needs money for food; the man said an officer had once given him a
he never could appreciate it. no, mon cousin,” she added with a sigh,
he noticed everything...”
he only gave an order to cease firing and re-form, so as to give room
he opened his eyes and looked up. the black canopy of night hung less
     he ought to be firing at the enemy.
he passed it. pierre began to feel a sense of uneasiness, and the
he patted her on the shoulder and himself closed the door after her.
he paused a little while.
he paused, and just as he was about to say something more, another ball
he paused and sighed, evidently trying to calm himself.
he paused, his gaze still on pierre, and moved aside on the sofa by way
he pointed to the french guns, the limbers of which were being detached
he pointed with a smile to a turreted nunnery, and his eyes narrowed and
he pulled off the quilt and shook it. the purse was not there.
he put on the air of one who finds it impossible to reply to such
he quickly entered the small reception room with its still-unplastered
her.
her.
her.
he raised both arms as if carefully lifting some invisible but precious
her already,” he said, evidently trying to entertain a visitor with
her and about to crush her was some terrible misfortune, the worst
her and for himself, and in a nervously emotional and softened mood he
her as a distant beauty far removed from him, as he had seen her every
her badge as maid of honor. the youthful little princess bolkónskaya,
her beauty and her remarkable skill in appearing silently dignified in
her because you must, and that wouldn’t do at all.”
her brother shook his head incredulously.
her companions’ not having the least conception that it could be
“here at least we shall have the benefit of your company all to
here,” came the voice of an hussar, past whom rostóv was riding in
here? don’t you see the skirmishers are retreating? lead the squadron
he reeled and sank on the snow.
here!” exclaimed different voices; and the heavy breathing of the
he reflected, “there is no riding round it now. i must look for the
“here he is at last!” shouted rostóv. “and berg too! oh, you
“here he is... our own... kólya, * dear fellow... how he has
“here, in that house,” answered the adjutant.
here, is he not? please announce me.”
here is now settled, and i ought to have been off long ago. here is
here is one from his highness the archduke ferdinand and here are
“here is our dear orthodox russian army,” thought bolkónski,
“here is some sort of key to the mysteries that your héloïse has
“here it is! the decisive moment has arrived. my turn has come,”
“here it is!” thought he, seizing the staff of the standard and
here i’ve brought the prince’s wedding candles to light before his
he remembered his honeymoon and blushed at the recollection.
(he remembered that in french there is some peculiar way of addressing a
he remembered the expression dólokhov’s face assumed in his moments
here on friday.”
he repeated, accentuating the u: “i think, however, now that he lays
here prince hippolyte paused, evidently collecting his ideas with
here prince hippolyte spluttered and burst out laughing long before his
here, run away, bury myself somewhere?” passed through his mind. but
here’s another admirer of that powder-monkey emperor of yours,” he
“here’s something for you to report,” said zherkóv. “see if i
“here’s to the health of lovely women, peterkin—and their
here the conversation seemed interesting and he stood waiting for an
here. where is it?” he asked, turning to lavrúshka.
her eyes, and then quickly went to his place and sat down. “sit down,
her eyes became serious. at that moment she was oblivious of her
her eyes off him, and smiling and holding her breath. he gave her a
her eyes were smiling expectantly, her downy lip rose and remained
her face, and then immediately he saw beside her dólokhov’s handsome,
her face became sad.
her face suddenly flushed with reckless and joyous resolution. she half
her fate was decided and happily decided. but what her father had said
“her father is very rich and stingy. he lives in the country. he is
her father was tidy. she put down the geometry book and eagerly broke
her favorite sonata bore her into a most intimately poetic world and
her foot into the other. sónya, when he came in, was twirling round and
her foot—which everyone appreciated in view of her size and habitual
her forehead. his fine eyes lit up with a thoughtful, kindly, and
her friend as if she did not consider her worthy to hear what she meant
her friend, the princess’ eyes—large, deep and luminous (it seemed
her glittering eyes, filled with childlike fear and excitement, rested
her guests, first the vicomte and then the abbé, as peculiarly choice
her handkerchief too. pierre was kissed, and he kissed the beautiful
her handsome eldest daughter were in the drawing room with the visitors
her head and continued in a whisper: “has he performed his final duty,
her head toward the darkness of the open doorway.
her heart. happy the man who wins her! with her the least worldly of men
her. how often when considering her character i have told myself that
her husband looked at her as if surprised to notice that someone besides
her in five minutes before and, despite the fixed eyes and the pallor of
her inflamed and perspiring cheeks, her charming rosy mouth with its
her lip descended. she brought her face close to her sister-in-law’s
her little nephew as best she could. mademoiselle bourienne, too, seemed
her long hair came down....” here he could contain himself no
her mother and burst into such a loud, ringing fit of laughter that even
her mother, quite excited.
her neck.
her neck as soon as she overtook her in the sitting room.
hero himself with his paltry vanity and joy in victory appear,
heroism!”
hero less on earth.”
her over his spectacles.
her own on the subject.
her path.
her plainly as she is, or else you will make a cruel and irrevocable
her—please don’t! it is too painful for her!”
her, rostóv thought, but just now there were so many other pleasures
her?” said the old prince angrily. “what an idea! i’m ready for it
her seducer when she loved him?” he thought. “god could not have put
“herself,” came the answer in a rough voice, and márya dmítrievna
herself disinterestedly at the head of an alliance having for its object
herself! glad to throw her father over! and she knew i should notice
herself in a white satin dressing gown embroidered with silver and with
herself in here for? but i will give her a piece of my mind. the time
herself should she glance round. anna mikháylovna, with a meek,
herself wish to die, that his end was not only touching but edifying. as
her sister dropped the portfolio. anna mikháylovna, stooping, quickly
her sister-in-law’s room. prince andrew in a traveling coat without
her sleeves and puffing heavily.
her sufferings or with their relief. the pangs began again and mary
her sympathy for pierre, but by involuntary intonations and a half smile
her temples. princess mary, supporting her sister-in-law, still looked
her tenderly and attentively, said severely:
her thin lips grew white, though her eyes did not change, and her voice
her—thou or you?”
her tone was now querulous and her lip drawn up, giving her not a
her up, hugged her, and, smiling through her tears, began comforting
her voice sounded so serious and so sad that the chirping of the birds
her white teeth. she met prince vasíli with that playful manner often
her. why do you say all this to me?”
her with a grimace that distorted his handsome face, kissed anna
her with perfect sincerity, and with the naïve and firm conviction
her work as if to testify that the interest and fascination of the story
her. “you know, catiche, that we—you three sisters, mámontov, and
he sad at leaving his wife?—perhaps both, but evidently he did not
he said.
he said no more, but expressed his resignation to cruel fate by a
he said. “perhaps you are right for yourself,” he added after
he said something more, but rostóv did not wait to hear it and rode
“he’s a low fellow, say what you will,” remarked prince hippolyte.
“he’s arrived!”
he sat down beside hippolyte and wrinkling his forehead began talking
he sat down by his wife, his elbows on his knees and his hands ruffling
he sat under fire. but despite himself, on his face too that same
he saw french cannon and french troops on the pratzen heights just where
he saw turrets and a church. what need to hurry? what was he now to say
he saw which way the wind was blowing, and his low opinion changed into
he scattered the burning tobacco, smashed the pipe, and threw it away.
“he’s coming!” shouted the signaler at that moment.
“he’s dead—why carry him?” said another.
he seemed to swell with satisfaction. he had hardly finished speaking
he seized his son by the hand with small bony fingers, shook it, looked
he sent for pierre and said to him: “my dear fellow, if you are going
he shaved and scented himself with the care and elegance which had
“he shouldn’t have taken so many men,” said the officer of the
he shouted, “and then i shall reserve the right to state my opinion
he shrugged his shoulders. a footman conducted borís down one flight of
he shrugged his shoulders and raised his hand to the kerchief, as if
he shrugged his shoulders and spread out his hands. pierre wished to
he sighed.
he signed with a flourish and suddenly turning to his son began to
hesitating voice. “i thank you. i agree with all you have said. but
hesitation and uncertainty among his conductors. he heard those around
(he smiled ironically.) “but even if he also took up a position in
he spoke so rapidly that he did not finish half his words, but his son
he spoke with such self-confidence that his hearers could not be sure
he spread a map on the table. “all eventualities have been foreseen.
he still had all the letters in his hand. opening them mechanically he
he stopped and remained silent for a long time.
he stopped short on his heels, stood so a second, stamped on the spot
he stretched out his hand to take hold of the purse. rostóv let go of
he suddenly blushed crimson, and it was plain that he had made a great
he suddenly cried. “even without a bet, there! tell them to bring me a
he sung a second, a third below the high note. “ah, god! how fine! did
“he’s very young to come to meddle with us.”
he talked to pierre), the old man was sitting on a large leather-covered
he (though pierre had not mentioned bonaparte), “but bonaparte when
he thought out his plans beforehand he could not have been so natural
he thought, stopping for a moment with a sinking heart, and then
he threw the bottle to the englishman, who caught it neatly. dólokhov
he told her she was still the same crybaby as ever. princess mary had
he took the dispatch which was addressed to him and began to read it
he took the lighted pipe that was offered to him, gripped it in his
he took the pistol in his hand and began asking about the working of the
he touched his horse and having called milorádovich, the commander of
he tried to say more, but faltered.
he turned away.
he turned round. nesvítski’s handsome face looked out of the little
he turned to kozlóvski with urgent questions.
he understood his commander’s wish.
he unhooked his saber. he came out from behind the chairs, clasped his
he vouchsafe its revelation to us through his divine spirit.
he waited a moment to see whether the cornet would answer, but he turned
“he wants to see a battle,” said zherkóv to bolkónski, pointing
he was admitted to the emperor, and an hour later he rode off with
he was afraid of finding in her a rival for count bezúkhov’s fortune,
he was asleep in his corner and woke him up. rousing himself, pierre
he was evidently so busy that he even forgot to be polite to the
he was flushed and bathed in perspiration, though the room was not hot.
he was in contact with the springs that set in motion the enormous
he was joyfully planning this new life, when prince vasíli suddenly
he was pleased at the gratitude he received, but felt abashed at
he was proud to be at the head of such a nation and would endeavor to be
he was riding almost along the front line. a handful of men came
he was riding was one he had bought from a cossack during the campaign,
he was sent away. hippolyte is her brother... prince vasíli is her
he was sent. this was the brilliant charge of the horse guards that
he was singing in passionate tones, gazing with his sparkling
he was thinking that prince andrew was unhappy, had gone astray, did not
he was told in russian, german, and czech by the crowd of fugitives who
he was told that he would now see the lesser light. the bandage was
he was touched, but also a gleam of irony on his face.
he was to wear at the meetings, and finally of the third, a pair of
he went forward uneasily over the rough field with the awkward gait of
he went nowhere and spent whole days in reading thomas à kempis, whose
he went on talking in this way in french, uttering only those words in
he went over his vices in his mind, not knowing to which of them to give
he went straight up to prince vasíli.
he went to his bed, drew a purse from under the clean pillow, and sent
“he will get up in twenty minutes. let us go across to mary’s
he will hit me in the head, or elbow, or knee. can’t i go away from
he wished to explain to dolgorúkov a plan of attack he had himself
he wished to take a decision, but felt with dismay that in this matter
he woke up...
he woke up and looked round for a while with a startled expression,
he wondered as he got up: and at that moment he felt that something
he wore the air of a man little concerned in what the two ladies were
he worked went step by step toward his goal. he was free, he had nothing
he would certainly be taken prisoner. kutúzov remained in the same
he would expand his chest, raise his head, and rejoice at his good
he would give an opinion at the war council which would be the only one
he would have been mentioned among the officers found on the field of
he would have done at that moment had hélène not fled from the room.
he would have to march with no road into unknown parts of the bohemian
he would into that foggy distance: now something gleamed gray, now there
he would rush through the whole suite of rooms without drawing breath,
he would say a lot of pleasant things, ask you to dinner” (“that
he would slap in the face before the emperor. suddenly a distant shout
“hey, cossack, my horse!” he said. “now, then, you there! get out
hidden by dense mist. having given orders in the commander in chief’s
hid her face still deeper in the bed. natásha wept, sitting on the
high, but the last round fell in the midst of a group of hussars and
higher ground it was clearing, but nothing could be seen of what was
highest degree just the very qualities pierre lacked, and which might
highest point. “it’s in charge of the queer fellow we saw without
highest spheres.
high—i always said....”
highly honored guest, took possession of him as it were, without waiting
“highly satisfied, your excellency!”
highness,” and pointing to the grand duke who with his high shoulders
high time!”
hill.
hill one after the other. their colonel, karl bogdánich schubert, came
hill opposite, with the french moving about on it, opened out before
hills, she took a special fancy to mademoiselle bourienne, spent whole
him!”
him.
him.
him.
him.
him.
him.”
him all the way. he thought angrily of the pleasure he would have at
him a look of stern inquiry, as though what pierre had just said was
him and did not stop but rode on and on, continually mistaking bushes
him and everything he could say had long been known to him, that he was
him and hélène. “well, what of it, if you all know it?” thought
him and he was at once blindfolded again.
him, and only as he kissed her hand on taking leave said unexpectedly
him and she wished and tried to please him as much as possible.
him. “and why should she marry?” he thought. “to be unhappy for
him and, with a christian mildness that expressed forgiveness of his
him and would not have others do so.”
him as a man, but what can one do?”
him a taper. he lit it and, distracted by observing those around him,
him be here....”
him, bonaparte had made in his campaigns and even in politics. his
him; but most of all, he felt joyful that the moment had come when he
him, but still that happy result always remained in the future.
him but to the whole regiment—all of us—you’re to blame all round.
him by the arm, “i believe that intervention will be stronger than
him, carried the infant round the battered tin font and handed him over
him die feeling that he is rendering unhappy those who...”
him disputing in whispers and one of them insisting that he should be
him do what he pleases,’ she used to say of me. one day i asked her if
him everyone began to stir: steps were audible and whispers, among which
him except the young princesses.... they are still young....” she bent
him feel confused by her smiles and her own confusion when meeting him.
him for those words, bullets flew hissing across the regiment and across
him, from his daughter to his serfs, the prince was sharp and invariably
him, from his weary, bored expression to his quiet, measured step,
him full directions which he had written down for his own guidance as to
him, handing him different articles of clothing. “what of sweden? how
him?” he asked.
him, he does not know russian.”
him he is a fool, that’s all!”
him, he’s a scoundrel. go on! go on!”
him. he stroked her hair and then patted her awkwardly on the back of
him,” he thought, and again he felt something terrible and monstrous
him if not to join in at least to listen to what he was saying. but the
him into the sitting room, where they began talking. they hardly gave
him merged in rostóv’s mind into a single feeling of terror and pity
him. “more, please: more! what’s he saying?”
him my whole staff and all that belongs to it, advising him if there is
him not in the least abashed.
him... olga, go and see whether uncle’s beef tea is ready—it is
him. on the day of prince vasíli’s arrival, prince bolkónski was
him or her to a little old lady, wearing large bows of ribbon in her
him, or perhaps for that very reason, the prince, though he continued
him, or what was said of him; he was only glad that people were standing
him out of the booth at grunth. he was shouting in a gasping voice:
him pleasure. the enemy’s guns were in his fancy not guns but pipes
him. prince vasíli’s two valets were busy dressing him, and he looked
him, push him, do anything but kiss him—a thing everybody did. but
him. “remember this, prince andrew, if they kill you it will hurt me,
him. rostóv was particularly in need of money now that the troops,
himself.
himself.
himself?
himself after his recent loneliness and freedom from cares so beset and
himself, and this fresh opportunity for action gave him new energy
himself an insignificant atom in it) would go through fire and water,
himself, but only desires the good of mankind. and what have they
himself fall into a trap moreau set him, and from which he did not know
himself had vanished. he was filled with happiness at his nearness to
himself, he kept in touch with the circle which confers success and
himself, he rose, threw back his head, and with resolute steps went
himself. i am called in to help sort the letters and take those meant
himself in the palace at potsdam.
himself into a chair, gazing at those in the room as if asking, “why
himself.... not a word! about some denísov or other, though he himself,
himself on a sofa with his face to the wall. pierre hid his face, from
himself one with his horse, rode past the emperor with a frowning but
himself on his seat.
himself, prince bagratión sent zherkóv to tell the general in command
himself to bagratión. bonaparte’s adjutant had not yet reached
himself to the count, who was looking inquiringly at him.
himself undertook his daughter’s education, and to develop these two
himself up, slightly arching his back. it was plain that the commander
himself up to such an extent that it seemed he could not have sustained
himself, was shouting to kutúzov that if he did not ride away at once
himself. what angered him was that the coming of these visitors revived
him several questions about his journey and seemed greatly interested in
him several riders with white plumes in their hats. in a moment everyone
him so when i see him!”
him surrounded by children whom, by the count’s generosity, he was
him. that’s a thing i hate! everything is possible.”
him that there would probably be an engagement that day or the next, and
him.” the mere thought of her father’s look filled her with terror.
him. the pain in his arm became more and more intense. irresistible
him, though, between you and me, he always seemed to me a poor sort
him to come. there were other guests and the countess talked little to
him to come up; prince bagratión reined in his horse and recognizing
him to deliver.
him to despatch part of the army abroad and to create a new condition
him to die. others are being born and there are plenty of them as it is.
him to go back as it was too dangerous to remain where they were.
him to hear something more, nodded and turned to him with a cheerful
him too, just opposite gúryev’s house... old gúryev.... oh, but
him up and lent him money. pierre recalled how hélène had smilingly
him what consolation i can.”
him. “what is this? they’re like sheep! just like sheep! out of the
him with her usual smile.
him. you know the story of the handkerchief? it is delightful!”
him ‘your majesty,’ but who, to his chagrin, got no title from
hindmost of these men wearing similar shakos was a russian hussar. he
hints began to make the countess anxious and she glanced uneasily at
hippolyte, and began looking through a lorgnette at his elevated legs.
hippolyte burst out laughing.
hippolyte gazing round with importance at the others, “without
hippolyte interrupted her with the words: “le roi de prusse...” and
hippolyte in the carriage, “your little princess is very nice, very
hippolyte is at least a quiet fool, but anatole is an active one. that
hippolyte laughed as if ashamed of laughing.
hippolyte “—so dull—. it has been a delightful evening, has it
hippolyte spluttered again, and amid his laughter said, “and you were
his acquaintance and joyfully welcomed the rich newcomer, the
his acquaintances, to overtake his regiment which was already in poland.
his arm.
his arm, began a long-drawn-out soldiers’ song, commencing with the
his attention wandered from the book and the square and he formed in
his beautiful daughter hélène.
his being alone and despondent! a strange face may seem unpleasant or
his boots. you can see everything from there; let’s go there,
his breast. among them stood a man whose white shirt was stained with
his breast and a serene expression on his flat face. he spoke in that
his camp,” said he. “what does that mean? either he is retreating,
his captain.
his career. moreover, he could see by her manners that she was one of
“his children are all illegitimate. i think pierre also is
his collar as if escaping, was sitting almost asleep in a low chair,
his companion. the latter, a fresh, rosy officer of the guards,
his company? if you were cleverer and more agreeable, i should prefer
his daughter, princess hélène, passed between the chairs, lightly
his daughter that morning. princess mary well knew this painstaking
his despair was all the greater from feeling that his own weakness was
his door, which creaked slightly when opened.
his dressing gown and smiled slightly, as if expressing respectful
his easy life in moscow, entered the room.
his efforts had not been in vain. the dinner, both the lenten and the
his example, and the loud shouting continued for a long time. when the
his excitement. “don’t you understand that either we are officers
his eye as a miller wakes up when the soporific drone of the mill wheel
his eyes and thought he would never open them again. suddenly he was
his eyes at the sight.
his eyes. “can they be french?” he looked at the approaching
his eyes he heard in front of him, where the enemy was, the long-drawn
his eyes seemed larger than usual when he glanced round and noticed
his face, began to talk—as one who has long had something on his mind
his face, gave him a peculiar vivacity and shiftiness of expression.
his face shone with self-satisfaction and pleasure.
his face suddenly softened and tears came into his eyes. with his left
his face was terrible and piteous to see, especially from its helpless
his fat chest uncovered, stepping unevenly and timidly in one slippered
his father and his fatherland. to the great regret of myself and of the
his father dismissed the abbé and said to the young man, “now go
his father’s part of the house. entering the drawing room, where the
his father’s peculiarities, and partly because he needed solitude,
his father who had brought it from the siege of ochákov. all these
his feverishness increased and he grew delirious. visions of his father,
his fieldglass. a little behind them nesvítski, who had been sent to
his future depended—whether he would follow the same old road, or that
his glittering black eyes at rostóv.
his grandfather, who was his godfather, trembling and afraid of dropping
his grave, even rather gloomy, look was instantaneously replaced by
his gray hair.
his hand.
his hand and at the head of a regiment—he fell as a hero, worthy of
his handkerchief, and again: ‘sergéy kuzmích, from all sides,’...
his hand over the thin grizzled strands of hair combed back across his
his hand prince andrew came up to his comrade, the aide-de-camp on duty,
his handsome face. natásha, very still, peered out from her ambush,
his hands to the blaze, and turned away his face.
his having been picked up on the battlefield by the people of the
his head.
his head.
his head and again assuming his former tone of a dull, unreasoning, but
his head, and with inimical politeness lurking in the corners of his
his head he let it droop and again closed his eye.
his highness the archduke ferdinand has honored me, i imagine that the
his horse indolently and carelessly. rostóv recalled their quarrel of
his horse keep pace with the company.
his horse with a convoy officer’s saddle.
his horse. zherkóv and the staff officer bent over their saddles and
his huge figure, with arms hanging down and with a puckered, though
his husbandry.
his imaginary sword, but smiling at the remembrance of that pleasant,
his impulsive nature, does get into mischief (a boy can’t help it), he
his instinct urged him on. before the officer finished his sentence
his in the diplomatic service.
his kindly, simple, and modest expression. anna pávlovna turned toward
his last parting from his father and his wife; he remembered the days
his legs almost gave way, it seemed to him that he was tired out. he
his legs. pressing against both sides of the window, he adjusted himself
his life. he walked about in front of the line and at every step pulled
his lips in his sleep and breathing evenly.
his lips without uttering a sound. he wished to say, “yes, a vile,
his lower jaw.
his majesty; but we think the present delay is depriving the splendid
his majesty the emperor derogates from the principle of our alliance...
his mind that they would be friends.
his mouth awry, prepared to shout. the regiment fluttered like a bird
his mouth, he turned with his glass to pierre.
his mouth very clearly revealed something unexpectedly coarse and
his muscular legs as if sailing along, stretching himself to his full
his musket walked away.
his neighbors’ glasses, not neglecting his own. the countess in turn,
his noble soul peacefully to leave this...”
his nose.
his old friend and the possessor of such enormous wealth, to the caprice
his own had taken possession of his brain and at that moment afforded
his own helplessness. at sight of this smile pierre felt an unexpected
his own house. the minister of war came up and congratulated him on the
his own pleasure, chose to chat with lieutenant drubetskóy. more than
his own superiority. it was as if he said to them: “i know you, i know
his own way, gave an order. no one said anything definite, but the rumor
his passion for the emperor had cooled somewhat in moscow. but still, as
his pistol, and then he felt with surprise that of all the men he knew
his plate, and proposed a toast, “to the health of the hero of our
his plate round and moving his wineglasses about with as much decision
his plate seemed to him not quite clean, and pointing to a spot he
his pocketbook.
his portrait, “definitely demanded that he should be called.”
his present state.
his private room and, calling his adjutant, asked for some papers
his relations with old friends, all his plans for his future, were
his reputation fighting them.”
his riding whip.
his rising. “this unfortunate fete at the ambassador’s deprives me
his room.
his rooms upstairs.
his routine, retired as usual after dinner. the little princess was in
his saber. only ten paces divided them. dólokhov lowered his head to
his saber, the soldiers all continued to run, talking, firing into the
his scanty gray hairs over his bald patch, also asked them to dinner.
his servant handed him a half-cut novel, in the form of letters, by
his ship is sailing, but on the day of battle—heaven knows how and
his shoulders.
his shoulders. “women, my dear fellow; women!”
his shrill, harsh voice. “the road is not swept for the princess my
his side had been attempting a reconciliation), and he also went up to
his skill?” he concluded.
his son and seizing the little princess’ arm as if she would have run
his son by both hands, he cried, “now i’ve got you, so take the
his son only smiled.
his speech, which he used in extreme cases when special persuasion was
his study and showed them his choice collection of turkish pipes. from
his suite, with their cossacks who were talking loudly together, prince
his superiors by his promptitude and accuracy and had arranged his money
his temple, where an ismail bullet had pierced his skull, and the empty
his thin, worn, sallow face was covered with deep wrinkles, which always
his time. but he is growing old, and though not exactly cruel he has too
his time there.
historical accounts of battles, involuntarily pictured to himself the
his toulon, or his bridge of arcola. how it would come about he did not
his typically southern french face during the whole time of the reading,
his usual jokes, but noticing that what he was saying redounded to
his utmost to look as small as possible. he looked at the count, who
his verses, bowed to bagratión. everyone rose, feeling that dinner
his voice. “she is living in moscow and you are here. remember,
his weak figure. “number two!” he squeaked. “fire, medvédev!”
his wealth, and being in the habit of lording it over these people, he
his weapons clean and polished to the utmost, and every horse groomed
his whole soul what the stranger said. whether he accepted the wise
his wife, and by an anonymous letter he had received that morning, which
his wife said—met for supper at prince vasíli’s. all these friends
his wife’s room. she was lying dead, in the same position he had seen
his wont, as if intentionally contrasting the briskness of his manners
his youngest boy, had all settled down in the drawing room and were
hitherto puckered brow became smooth as a sign of pleasure, and with a
hitting men and that afterwards someone had shouted “cavalry!” and
“hm!—his excellency is a puppy.... i got him his appointment in the
“hm... hm...!” growled pierre, frowning without looking at her, and
“hm... hm...” muttered the old prince to himself, finishing what he
“hm! hm!” muttered the prince, sitting down.
“hm.... if you wish to kill him, to kill him outright, you can see
hoarsely. prince andrew winced and, clutching his head, went out and sat
“ho! ho! ho! ha! ha! ha! ha! ouh! ouh!” came peals of such healthy
“ho, ho!” said the old man, casting his eyes on her rounded figure.
holding high her fifty-year-old head with its gray curls, she stood
holding the bottle was lifted higher and higher and trembled with the
holding up a threatening finger. “he is such a worthy and excellent
holding up his saber, his spurs jingling, he ran up the steps of the
holding up the folds of her dress, and the smile shone still more
“hold your tongue, pétya, what a goose you are!”
hollabrünn and have pursued ever since to this place. the position we
hollow and were firing at our men. prince bagratión bowed his head as a
hollows and snow-covered pools of water.
home now for the first time after eighteen months again brightened his
home reading a book and trying to fathom the significance of the square,
home,” said the valet.
home. should he go to headquarters next day and challenge that affected
hommes massacrés et l’armée de nos alliés détruite, et vous
honorable, and brave, but if he robs his fellows there is no honor in
honorable, count,” or, “were he as clever as you,” and so on,
honorable, of bezúkhov? and fédya, with his noble spirit, loved him
honored guests sat, everyone seemed to be in high spirits and under the
honor? knowing him to be an only son, to challenge him and shoot so
honor of the french infantry, so necessary to the honor of our nation.
honor to choose me to be their marshal; it was all i could do to get
honor, was terrible.
hoofs, and apparently ready to jump over the railings had his rider let
hoofs and the jingling of showy cavalry in blue, red, and green braided
hoofs and wheels. amid the general rumble, the groans and voices of the
“h-o-o-w are you standing? where’s your leg? your leg?” shouted
hoped. she prayed for her brother as living and was always awaiting news
hoped to lead he still lived the old life, only in new surroundings.
hope you will change your opinions, my dear monsieur pierre.”
hoping to find him alone. when he came in and saw an hussar of the line
horror and fear. all were still. pierre took his hands from his eyes.
horror-struck. but when she saw that pierre’s sacrilegious words
     * hors d’oeuvres.
horse a little in front of his marshals. he gazed silently at the hills
horse for which he had paid seven hundred rubbles was not worth half
horse of a batman or groom of some important personage and began to
horse, rode up to the porch, swung his leg over the saddle with a supple
horses and ilyá iványch. i don’t think ilyá drives anyone except
horses and the infantry collecting wood.
horses in horsecloths. then came a cart, and behind that walked an old,
horses near the window, prince andrew felt that something important and
horse still struggled.
horses were already galloping. rostóv heard the thud of their hoofs
horse—that i’ll warrant,” said shinshín, patting him on the
horse with his spurs, and giving it the rein leaped lightly over. only
horse you’ll thank me for.”
hospital at ostrolenka till i recover. in regard to which i humbly
hospitality, did the honors to the prince.
hospitals could no longer accommodate all the sick and wounded, yet the
hospitals. the one and the other may serve as a pastime. but what’s
hostess look toward the door, and now and then glance at one another,
hostilities are ended, we can shake one another’s hand.... the
hour alone with the dying man, passed out, slightly acknowledging their
hours’ sleep before morning and felt cheerful, bold, and resolute,
hour. suddenly the broad muscles and lines of the count’s face began
house and now managed all his affairs, stepped softly into the room.
house for your wife is ready. princess mary will take her there and
household, a common anxiety, a softening of the heart, and a
household. and there in fact was sónya lying face downward on nurse’s
house lay behind a newly dug pond filled with water to the brink and
house, now and then opening her door when someone passed and watching
houses from his door. it seemed to him the horses were not moving at
house. though he expected that the story of his escapade would be
house was brilliant with lights shining through its lofty windows. the
house was dominated by the same feeling that princess mary experienced
house with prince bagratión and weyrother. weyrother was the austrian
house, you know, and danced with the children. be sure to invite him, my
“how about my son borís, prince?” said she, hurrying after him into
“how about the horses?” he asked, without looking at pierre.
“how am i?” dólokhov answered coldly. “i am as you see.”
how am i to renounce forever these vile fancies, so as peacefully to
“how am i to understand you, mon père?” said the princess, growing
how bright and glorious was the setting sun! with what soft glitter the
“how can he talk like that?” thought pierre. he considered his
how can i, an insignificant mortal, show his omnipotence, his infinity,
“how can one talk or think of such trifles?” thought pierre.
“how can the emperor be undecided?” thought rostóv, but then even
“how dare you take it?” he shouted.
how did it begin? i traveled from moscow with prince vasíli. then there
“how do you do, cousin?” said pierre. “you don’t recognize
“how do you do, my dear? i wish you many happy returns of your name
“how do you expect him to answer you all at once?” said prince
how do you judge of it?” he added, addressing nicholas, who when he
how d’ye do, old fellow?” he said, turning to an old man who was
“how easy it is, how little effort it needs, to do so much good,”
however, at nine o’clock the prince, in his velvet coat with a sable
however, for he will leave us again to take part in this unhappy war
“however, if you command it, your majesty,” said kutúzov, lifting
“however, i think general kutúzov has come out,” said prince
“however, there will hardly be an engagement today,” said bagratión
however they might change the setting and adornment of that face, it
“however, this is not at all interesting. let us have dinner, and then
“how funny you are!” he said, bending down to her and blushing still
“how handsome the old man still was only a year ago!” remarked the
how have you spent it? in riotous orgies and debauchery, receiving
“how is it i am not moving? i have fallen, i am killed!” rostóv
“how is it,” she began, as usual in french, settling down briskly
“how is that?...” began prince andrew, who had for long been waiting
how is that?” said different voices.
“how is the count? can i see him?” asked pierre, awkwardly as usual,
“how it will be there i don’t know, but all will be well!” thought
how long his unconsciousness lasted. suddenly he again felt that he was
“how lovely!” said everyone who saw her; and the vicomte lifted his
“how many miles?”
how much anxiety one has had to go through that we might rejoice in
“how much longer? how much longer? oh, these insufferable streets,
“how often have i asked you not to take my things?” she said. “you
how one day soon after his marriage he came out of the bedroom into his
“how plainly all these young people wear their hearts on their
how quickly! now i know that not because of her alone, nor of myself
“how she loves me!” thought princess mary. “how happy i am now,
“how’s it you’re not drunk today?” said nesvítski when the
“how’s this, colonel?” he shouted as he approached. “i told you
“how strange it is,” said véra, selecting a moment when all were
how stupid you men all are not to have married her! excuse me for saying
     how sweet, as fancies wander free,
“how sweet she is—she will be a weal beauty!” said denísov.
how the russians had been overwhelmed by flying austrians and had had to
how they had been made much of in russia, poland, and abroad. they spoke
“how thoroughly like him that is!” he said to princess mary, who had
how to arrange it. what do you think?”
how to behave with her. the evening before, in the first happy moment of
how to escape?”
“how understand me!” cried her father angrily. “prince vasíli
“how was it a gun was abandoned?” asked bagratión, frowning, not so
how we went to the sparrow hills with madame jacquot?... it’s such an
how you look at things! send two men? and who then would give us the
hugging and kissing him. another and yet another creature of the same
human skull with its cavities and teeth. after reading the first words
“humbug! nonsense! humbug, humbug, humbug!” cried prince bolkónski,
humiliation of arrogant austria and that in a week’s time he might,
humility.
humming infantry as by a frame.
humor and dissatisfied with the affair, and so did not exert themselves
hum with voices. on all sides soldiers were running to and fro, throwing
hundred rubles he had a long column of figures scored against him,
hundred rubles was left of that money, so that this seven of hearts
hundred yards after that before he saw to his left, across the whole
hungarian?” said the commander with an austere gibe.
hung low over the field of battle on the horizon. it was growing
hungry, exhausted men would have to detain for days the whole enemy army
hungry, ill-shod soldiers, and losing a third of his men as stragglers
“hur-a-a-a-ah!” came a roar of voices. “let anyone come my way
“hurrah—ah!—ah!” rang a long-drawn shout from our ranks, and
     hurrah for emperor alexander!”
“hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!” thundered from all sides, one regiment
“hurrah!” rang the enthusiastic voices of the officers.
“hurrah!” shouted prince andrew, and, scarcely able to hold up
“hurrah!”... then the general march, and again “hurrah! hurrah!”
hurriedly interrupting bagratión.
hurriedly: “i will tell you some time how it all happened. but you
hurriedly unclasped his hands, stopped at a table as if tying the
hurriedly up to the unknown general and blocking his way to the door.
hurried off to his company, buttoning up his coat as he ran.
hurrying past them.
husband.
husband of a beauty, and in a word—an old woman; and secondly because
husband. prince andrew’s eyes were closed, so weary and sleepy did he
hussar and began lifting him.
hussar, “and why are you exciting yourself? do you think the french
hussar cornet zherkóv had at one time, in petersburg, belonged to
hussar revels and life in the fighting line, the other of the pleasures
hussars began carefully aligning their horses. silence fell on the whole
hussars, but still with that naïve air that made it impossible to know
hussars, cossacks, and adjutants, in his camlet coat, as he jolted on
hussars, flushing and addressing an adjutant who had ridden up, “so
hussars hastily dismounted, not knowing what they were to do. the men
hussars, told them to follow him, and trotted downhill in the direction
“i...”
“i...”
i, above all, who am to blame for everything. help me, teach me, and
i alone have any influence with my father, and now and then can save him
“i also wanted to ask you,” continued prince andrew, “if i’m
i always stick to mother truth. it’s not right!”
“i am.”
i am.”
“i am afraid for the baby,” she said to mademoiselle bourienne:
i am afraid of him.”
“i am afraid of mixing the figures,” pierre replied; “but if you
“i am afraid,” said pierre, smiling, and wavering between the
“i am asking you when you last heard from bolkónski,” repeated
“i am awaiting orders to join my new regiment, your excellency,”
i am dissatisfied with your younger son? between ourselves” (and her
“i am expecting you, pierre,” said the same voice, but gently and
“i am fond of you, especially as you are the one live man among our
“i am glad i have spoken out fully. perhaps you did not like it? you
“i am glad i was able to do you a service, my dear anna
“i am going away.”
“i am living at countess rostóva’s,” replied borís, again
“i am not in the cavalry, colonel, but i am a russian general and if
“i am not jesting,” bilíbin went on. “nothing is truer or sadder.
“i am not jesting with you; please be silent!” cried bolkónski,
“i am not speaking of regicide, i am speaking about ideas.”
“i am not talking about you,” he said, “i don’t know you and,
“i am not your ‘dear sir,’ mr. staff officer, and you did not tell
“i am ordered to write a memorandum explaining why we are not
i am overwhelmed with business and it is purely out of charity that
“i am quite of your opinion,” replied nicholas, flaming up, turning
“i am ready for everything,” said pierre.
“i am so enchanted by the brilliancy of the wit and culture of the
“i am so glad you’ve come!” said natásha, without answering him.
i am sorry for that,” he went on.
“i am so sorry for the poor count,” said the visitor. “he is in
“i am speaking sincerely as a friend! consider! where and why are
“i am speaking ze truce,” replied the hussar with a smile.
i am to do; i wanted to consult you seriously.”
i am told.”
“i am very glad i did not go to the ambassador’s,” said prince
“i am very sorry, ma’am,” answered the maid.
“i am very sorry you did not find me in yesterday. i was fussing about
“i am very, very grateful to you, mon cher,” or “ma chère”—he
“i am waiting, your majesty,” answered kutúzov, bending forward
“‘i am wounded and cannot ride and consequently cannot command the
“i am your faithful slave and to you alone i can confess that my
“i begin ab ovo. ‘the enemy of the human race,’ as you know,
“i believe it, i believe it, fwiend, and i share and appwove...”
“i bestow it with pleasure,” said napoleon. “and who is that young
“i bet a hundred on stevens!” shouted one.
“i bet fifty imperials”—he spoke french that the englishman might
“i bet on dólokhov!” cried a third. “kurágin, you part our
“i burned this to prove my love for her. i just heated a ruler in the
“i called once or twice at your house,” said rostóv, reddening.
i can do.” and his fancy pictured the battle, its loss, the
i cannot agree with you about pierre, whom i knew as a child. he always
“i cannot argue about it,” replied prince andrew coldly, but he
i cannot find words to express to you my displeasure. you command only
“i cannot inform your majesty at what o’clock the battle began at
“i cannot pay it all immediately. will you take an i.o.u.?” he said.
i can’t...”
“i can’t bear the sight of that woman.”
“i can tell you more,” continued prince vasíli, seizing her hand,
“i can’t help it,” said the prince. “lavater would have said i
“i can’t. i’ve sworn not to. i won’t drink and won’t play till
“i can’t make out at all,” said nesvítski.
i can’t,” replied bolkónski, smiling.
“i can’t tell you how much i have lived through since then. i hardly
ice and into the water and oftenest of all among the crowd that covered
ice. crowds of soldiers from the dam began running onto the frozen pond.
“ice pudding, but you won’t get any,” said márya dmítrievna.
“i come from the archduchess’. i heard nothing there.”
“i commanded a squadron,” replied repnín.
“i confess i do not understand: perhaps there are diplomatic
i confess i understand very little about all these matters of wills and
i consider it my duty to let you know of it. he is said to be very
i could not have done it myself, i should not have had the courage, but
i dare say, is braver than any of them. he says nothing about his
idea of the means by which our holy order will help you to reach your
“i did not expect this of you,” said the staff captain seriously and
i did not think he would get it to you so quickly.... well, how are you?
“i did not... what is it all about?” inquired prince andrew
idiot!... but what’s the good?...” and he waved his arm.
idleness, but would grow fat and die. the third thing—what else was
idlers have failed to beat the germans. since the world began everybody
idle, vicious life!” but dared not break the silence.
“i’d like to put you on a two days’ march with a knapsack! your
i doing? aren’t they laughing at me? shan’t i be ashamed to remember
i do not begin, sire, because we are not on parade and not on the
“i do not know what you think, father,” whispered the princess.
“i do not think i have complained of my wife to you, másha, or blamed
“i do not understand,” said pierre, feeling with dismay doubts
i do not yet know. there will be time enough to think about love when i
“i don’t at all say that all the plans are good,” said prince
“i don’t even know what is in this paper,” said the younger of
“i... don’t...” he muttered, holding up two fingers to his cap.
“i don’t know, general....”
“i don’t know. i think if he writes, i will write too,” she said,
“i don’t like your mademoiselle bourienne at all,” said prince
“i don’t like you to talk like that.”
“i don’t myself know ‘to who,’” replied the cornet in a
“i don’t say it’s a plan i approve of,” said the son; “i am
i don’t speak of anatole, your youngest. i don’t like him,” she
“i don’t understand,” he said, “how it is that the mind of man
“i don’t understand it,” replied prince andrew. “women who are
“i don’t understand, mamma—what is his attitude to pierre?”
“i don’t understand!” said prince andrew.
“i don’t understand. what’s it all about?”
i don’t want him.” (he looked at his blushing daughter.) “are you
i don’t want to have you like our silly ladies. get used to it and
i envy him, but you want to make him what i am, without giving him my
“i expected help from you and i get none, none from you either!”
“i expect so.”
if about to tell a good story he put down the cards, leaned back in his
if all the powers of his soul were concentrated on passing the commander
“if anyone comes meddling again,” said he, emitting the words
if a soldier, he should be dressed in regulation uniform like the
if at first the members of the council thought that kutúzov was
“if at least we had some women here; but there’s nothing foh one
“if buonaparte remains on the throne of france a year longer,” the
if but one stage nearer znaim. the offer of a truce gave the only, and
if complaining of kutúzov.
“if he could attack us, he would have done so today,” said he.
“if he” (he meant the enemy) “begins popping at the bridge now,”
if he intended to say something, but immediately, with affected
“if he is better, ask pierre to dine with us. he has been to the
“if he is one of the ordinary little staff dandies sent to earn a
if he is standing before brünn...”
“if he starts a row i’ll go away,” said prince anatole. “i
“if he were not,” he said quietly, “you and i would not be
if, however, the emperor of russia ratifies that convention, i will
“if i’d been in nikólenka’s place i would have killed even more
“if i have time,” answered nicholas. “but i promised the
if in search of something. before dinner the old prince, of whom she was
if in search of something. on his way to the aunt he bowed to the little
“if it does not weigh a hundredweight and won’t break my neck...
if it is to last. prince vasíli knew this, and having once realized
“if it is true that monsieur denísov has made you a proposal, tell
“if it were not for my sincere affection and devotion to uncle,”
“if it were true that he has been beaten, news would have come.”
“if i were tsar i would never go to war,” said nesvítski, turning
“if no one fought except on his own conviction, there would be no
if not it is merely a question of settling where the preliminaries of
“if only i knew that anything besides humiliation would come of
“if only they would be quick!” thought rostóv, feeling that at last
if she had not meant it seriously. it makes it as if you were marrying
if the whole world had gone crazy.”
“if they had known that you wished it, the entertainment would have
if to say that this was no more than she had expected.
“if we fought before,” he said, “not letting the french pass, as
“if we get to vienna i’ll get rid of it there but in these wretched
“if we live we shall see,” replied bilíbin, his face again becoming
if we occupy the villages of sokolnitz and kobelnitz, whereby we
if you are in love, marry him!” said the countess, with a laugh of
“if you are refusing for my sake, i am afraid that i...”
“if you are resolved, i must begin your initiation,” said the rhetor
“if you had told me sooner, mamma, i would have gone,” she replied
if you have firmly resolved to join our brotherhood.” (pierre nodded
“if you have nothing better to do, count (or prince), and if the
“if you like, your honor!”
“if you please, your excellency, pétrusha has brought some papers,”
“if you really want it,” said he.
“if you, sir, choose to make a buffoon of yourself,” he said
if you still try to defend the infamies and horrors perpetrated by that
“if you won’t answer, i’ll tell you...” hélène went on. “you
i get reinstated.”
“i had not the pleasure of seeing you,” said prince andrew, coldly
i had to express my own desire...” she had no time to finish. the old
“i have.”
“i have already refused,” she said hurriedly.
“i have already told you, papa,” said his son, “that if you
i have a presentiment that for the first time i shall have to show all
“i have come to you with a message and an offer, count,” he
“i have come with my mother to see the count, but it seems he is not
“i have done my best for him, and i can assure you the education there
i have done that though badly and to a small extent; but i have done
“i have four sons in the army but still i don’t fret. it is all
i have had a letter from my brother, who announces his speedy arrival
“i have had a proposition made me concerning you,” he said with an
“i have heard of you, my dear sir,” continued the stranger, “and
“i have met loving, noble, high-minded men, but i have not yet met
“i have no money with me,” he said.
“i have not referred to this out of curiosity, my dear sir, but for
“i haven’t been in the room. it must be where you put it.”
i have received what was due from the ryazán estate and will keep it;
“i have said nothing to you, but you have already been talked to. and
“i have seen as much before now, mate!”
“i have the honor to congratulate you. general mack has arrived, quite
“i have the honor to present myself,” repeated prince andrew rather
“i have the pleasure of addressing count bezúkhov, if i am not
i have written that he should make use of you in proper places and not
“i hear you have given orders to harness,” she cried, panting (she
“i... hope... for guidance... help... in regeneration,” said pierre,
“i hope this will prove the last drop that will make the glass run
“i imagine that freemasonry is the fraternity and equality of men who
“i?... i’m going to petersburg,” answered pierre, in a childlike,
“i intended to re-form them beyond the village, your excellency,”
“i? i? what of me? leave me out of the question. i’m not going to
“i knew someone who received that sacrament seven times.”
“i knew the princess at once,” put in mademoiselle bourienne.
“i knew you would be here,” replied pierre. “i will come to supper
i know for certain that you won’t marry her.”
“i know from reliable sources that the dowager empress is taking a
“i know, i know,” answered prince vasíli in his monotonous voice.
“i know,” interrupted bilíbin, “you’re thinking it’s very
“i know it and shall prove it,” said rostóv.
“i know, my dear, kind princess,” said anna mikháylovna, seizing
“i know people consider me a bad man!” he said. “let them! i
“i know that no one can help if nature does not do her work,” said
“i know the will was made, but i also know that it is invalid;
“i know who has taken it,” repeated rostóv in an unsteady voice,
“i know your heart,” repeated the prince. “i value your friendship
“i know your outlook,” said the mason, “and the view of life you
i know you will pray over it. well, pray if you like, but you had better
“i’ll drink it! let’s have a bottle of rum!” shouted pierre,
illegitimate.”
i’ll find you another place.”
“i’ll flatten you into a pancake!” shouted the angry officer to
i’ll flog you all.”
i’ll go to the general and ask him.” he readjusted himself in the
ill! i was only there a few moments and hardly said a word...”
i’ll just finish dealing, and then ilyúshka will come with his
“i’ll kill you!” he shouted, and seizing the marble top of a table
i’ll let her see....”
“i’ll let two more letters pass, but the third i’ll read,” said
ill luck takes us. they say we are going to olmütz, and olmütz is a
“illness or not, he’d better not cwoss my path. i’d kill him!”
illness. prince vasíli said something to lorrain in passing and went
“i’ll really call in on the nuns,” he said to the officers who
i’ll see.” the old prince snorted. “let her marry, it’s all the
“i’ll show you, i’ll show you! it’s not a secret. and it’s a
“i’ll sing for you a whole evening,” said natásha.
ill-suited to the family circle of which pierre was almost a member.
i’ll teach you to think!” and lifting his stick he swung it and
“i’ll tell you what, my dear fellow,” said prince andrew, who
“i’ll trust you.”
illumined, and plunge him into the depths of unknown and undefined
i love so that i would give my life for them, and the others i’d
    * “i love you.”
    * i love you.
“i love you all, and have done no harm to anyone; and what have you
ilyá has sent you to ask for strawberries and fresh pineapples.’ we
ilyúshka, the one who danced at count orlóv’s, you remember, in a
imagination a new plan of life. on the previous evening at the lodge, he
imagine...”
imagined only important possibilities: “if the enemy attacks the right
imagined oppressors whose victims he would rescue. of the three
imagine that their children have no secrets from them. “i know i shall
imagining himself before his own officers, insisted on his soldierly
“i make bold to ask your excellency to move a little for this
i’m alive, that is not my fault, so i must live out my life as best i
“i’m certain of it; you’ll see.”
“i’m glad,” answered dólokhov briefly and clearly, as the song
“i’m glad, glad, to see you,” he said, looking attentively into
immediately.
immediately.”
immediately brightened on seeing rostóv. “schön gut morgen! schön
immediately broke off. the door of the private room opened and kutúzov
“immediately, prince,” said kozlóvski. “dispositions for
immediately starting to run along the hall and up the warped steps of
immediately told him that this man could be useful, and without any
immense force upon kutúzov’s line of communication with the troops
immensity of the power they constituted.
immobile for a few moments. then wrinkles ran over his face like a wave
“i’m not a goose, but they are who cry about trifles,” said
“i’m not such a fool.... just you try it on.... allez-vous
“i’m not to blame that the conversation began in the presence of
“‘i most ardently desire,’ writes the king of prussia to
impassive face of oriental type, came out after the commander in chief.
impassive face?” prince andrew asked himself as he looked. prince
impatience, while the princess jumped up and with a gesture of
impatient and sets to work himself and finds letters from the emperor
impatiently.
impatiently, “i came here not to wrangle with you, but to talk about
impatient the nearer they got to moscow.
impending action. from privates to general they were not expecting a
impending battle, under a heading which he also read out:
imperials ... or do you wish to make it a hundred?” added he,
imperturbable calm she did not begin to speak in front of the valet.
impetus, and princess mary long remembered the dying creak of that
implied that, for certain considerations he could not know of, this was
importance, he returned again, called back the cook and the club
importance of the rite now being performed and even approved of it. he
important and unimportant, all of whom he knew, as if they were all
important post in vienna. both the foreign minister and our ambassador
important. what is important are the rights of man, emancipation from
impossible...”
impossible!” and suddenly he was seized by a panic of fear for himself
“impossible!” cried prince andrew. “that would be too base.”
impossible for him to return to his former conception of her, that he
impossible not to notice his face. dólokhov was a man of small means
impossible... oh, how pleasant it was at home!... the knave, double or
impossible to stop him, she rallied her forces and joined the vicomte in
impressionable, smiling young faces (smiling probably at their own
impression. “but that is a matter of perfect indifference to me,” he
impression his news of a victory would create, or recalling the send-off
impression of those voices and faces and a sense of loneliness merged
impressions of the recent battle, picturing pleasantly to himself the
impression. whether dolgorúkov and weyrother, or kutúzov, langeron,
impressively, blocking the way to the bedroom and preventing the other
improvement. his satire has been less bitter of late, and there was a
“i’m quite worn out by these callers. however, i’ll see her and
“i must also inform you,” said the rhetor, “that our order
“i must have that purse, i tell you,” shouted denísov, shaking his
i myself have experienced ... and so ... because ... no, excuse me!
in 1806 the old prince was made one of the eight commanders in chief
in a bad temper, and in the morning tíkhon had already advised the
inability to enter a room and converse in it was, however, redeemed by
in accord with his intentions. prince andrew noticed, however, that
in a cheerful voice:
in a corner of the hut stood a standard captured from the french, and
in a corner of the room something red and tiny gave a grunt and squealed
inactive and has left the university to join the army. i will confess to
inactive, would also soon have to meet the enemy.
in a day or two we shall all have to take part in a greater and more
in all sincerity—not as a future mason but as an honest man: have you
in amazement.
“in a minute, in a minute,” he said, dipping his pen.
“in a moment. À propos,” she added, becoming calm again, “i am
in a moment the men came running gaily from their campfires and began
in, and sinking heavily into an armchair.
“in an hour’s time, i should say.”
in any case. he has forwarded me a letter from borís. thank god, borís
inappropriate, she was unable to stop him.
in a shovel—the guests who had been scattered about in different rooms
in a tone only used by persons who are certain that those they call will
in attaching himself as an orderly officer to prince bagratión. he now
inattentive, but you had talent—oh yes, you had talent!”
inaudible, voice.
“in a word, a hearty one...” said the subaltern, laughing (the
in bonaparte’s address to his army at the beginning of the campaign,
in brünn everybody attached to the court was packing up, and the heavy
incessantly, repeating petersburg reminiscences and even phrases. prince
in chief, and from the noisy laughter of the cossacks holding the
in chief’s office were gathered kutúzov himself, weyrother, and the
in chief would be. though the aide-de-camp did not know these
in clean notes, was lying ready under a handkerchief on the countess’
inclination—practical business.
income which was said to amount to five hundred thousand rubles a year,
incomparably higher than a general, and according to which what was
in comparison with eternity?”
incomprehensible—the death of one she loved.
in consequence of this discovery his whole manner of life, all
inconvenient, unseemly, and impossible to do so.
in conversation—count rostopchín, prince yúri dolgorúkov, valúev,
in couples and he himself rode along the line trying to master the
increased tenfold, and their life, which seemed to have been passed in
increasing, seemed like someone’s breathing. he listened intently to
incredible, unheard-of, and impossible event of a russian defeat,
     * “indeed, sire, we shall do everything it is possible to
“indeed? yes, yes!” said borís, with a smile. “and we too have
indicated that if he was not dancing it was because he would not and not
indicating a captive french dragoon who was being brought in on foot by
indicating her to the gentlemen, said: “voilà marie!” princess mary
indication of something new and stern showed round the mouth.
indications, he saw clearly that the allies believed him to be far away
indifference, began to hum to himself, producing a queer sound which
indifferent air, and glanced into the little drawing room. pierre and
indifferent hands of the minister of war and the polite adjutant. the
indifferently quiescent till the moment when motion is transmitted
indifferently to his wife’s chatter with prince hippolyte who had also
indignantly. “i come to ask you what to do, and you call it
indiscretion, nodded and said: “i hope to see you again, but i also
indiscretion, one might ask about our plans.
in discussion with the sole object of offending one another. but the
indisposition was the strong impression made on his sensitive mind by
indistinct words, shrugging his shoulders and gesticulating.
individual commanders and inquiring into details of the action and our
i need.” but when he came across a man of position his instinct
“i never could understand how nataly made up her mind to marry that
“i never go back on my word,” he said. “besides, sónya is so
“i never invited them. they came to disturb my life—and there is not
inevitable pain showed itself.
inevitably have to learn what lies the other side of death. but you are
in exactly the same manner. nesvítski laughed and nudged the others to
infamous, vile woman!”
infantry.
infantry and cavalry and took up its appointed position. not only the
infantry, and having reached the village of gruntersdorf they halted. it
infantry, cavalry, and artillery. how was it that two guns were
infantry in different uniforms; now was heard the rhythmic beat of
infantry officer who just before the battle had rushed out of
infants in arms met him to thank him for releasing them from hard
inflammable material on the bridge must be reinspected.”
influence in society, however, is a capital which has to be economized
influence of a variety of exciting sensations. only pierre and
influence of the dark, graceful girl who loved another.
informed him of a victory and stated strategically the position of the
informing the prince that as soon as the action began he had withdrawn
“inform the prince that i the bridge fired!” said the colonel
“inform the prince that labor has begun,” said mary bogdánovna,
in four different provinces. he had arranged this for himself so as to
in french.
in french out of all this, showing all the news we have had of the
in front of him and that the enemy must be at least six miles away.
in front of him was misty darkness. rostóv could see nothing, peer as
in front of them, and that the columns moving near pratzen constituted
in front of them rows of gray cloaks were already visible through the
in general at bald hills the little princess lived in constant fear, and
“in general we must turn this bloodthirsty soldier to more humane
in geometry were among the greatest delights of her life.
in god’s hands. you may die in your bed or god may spare you in a
in good spirits, he mounted his horse and rode out into the field
ingratiating and appealing smile, and took his hand that he might not go
in great russia, which formed the larger part of his property, and left
inhabitants on whom they were quartered. braunau was the headquarters of
in half an hour all was again in order, only the squares had become gray
in hand.
in her eyes, which, for an instant, glanced at pierre, prince vasíli
inheritance; but i do know that since this young man, whom we all used
in his fine gray eyes, and on his delicate lips the same capacity for
in his hand, was sitting there with a smile of deep emotion on his face,
in his horse before the emperor.
in his horse, said to him:
in his large elongated hand on blue paper as follows:
in his mind an unsettled question he always tried to stifle, one about
in his movements, in his walk, scarcely a trace was left of his former
in his saddle.
in his tone, “my dear,” whether they were above or below him in
in his voice a sincerity and weakness pierre had never observed in it
in his writing table, and this is a paper he has forgotten....”
in.’ i do not know how far he was justified in saying so.”
in it by spring.
injuries—and that men attribute the greatest merit to skill in killing
in kiev pierre found some people he knew, and strangers hastened to make
in killed, wounded, sick, and stragglers; though a number of sick and
in kishenëv with only a moldavian peasant woman to help instead of a
in lace-frilled drawers, and feet in low slippers—was just at that
in life, one she had not yet experienced, irreparable and
in love. the marshals stood behind him not venturing to distract his
in love with the tsar,” he said.
in mary bogdánovna’s trembling white hands.
in me. i have been told that her brother anatole was in love with her
in military matters.
in my opinion was nothing of the kind. we civilians, as you know, have
inner laboratory of his mind in a portable form as if intentionally, so
innocent and untried?”
innocent youth.
in november, 1805, announcing that he and his son would be paying him
in november, 1805, prince vasíli had to go on a tour of inspection
in no way binding) might give time for part of the transport to pass,
inn, where two roads parted. both of them led downhill and troops were
in october, 1805, a russian army was occupying the villages and towns of
in on bad company. rostóv flushed up on noticing this, but he did not
in one company dinner was ready, and the soldiers were gazing eagerly
in only his stockings, rose when they entered, smiling not altogether
in our army. his own strategic plan, which obviously could not now
in our house, aren’t they?”
in our lack of understanding we see only our weakness and his
“in our temples we recognize no other distinctions,” read the grand
in passing prince vasíli seized pierre’s hand and said to anna
in perplexity, and only later grasped that a stroke was an attack of
in petersburg and that a copy, which he had himself seen, had that day
in petersburg, as in moscow, pierre found the same atmosphere of
in princess drubetskáya’s case he felt, after her second appeal,
in pure, correct french many interesting details about the armies and
inquiring look. he was about to stoop over her hand and kiss it, but
inquiringly at the young prince, wondering what would follow.
inquiring what she was to do with these people. on leaving them, anna
inquiry. the son noticed that an expression of profound sorrow suddenly
in retirement and had now no influence in political affairs, every high
in rostóv’s soul! and this something was apart from everything else
insane—unprofitable to himself, to the count, and to the serfs—made
in separate piles, began counting them.
“in short, hoping to settle matters by taking up a warlike attitude,
insignificance, aware of being but a drop in that ocean of men, and
in silence, and then the same joke was repeated.
in society it seems as if there were something in them, but there’s
insolent, hard, and mocking face as he had seen it at the banquet, and
insolent intelligence of his eyes, produced an effect which made it
insoluble.
in some respects a brilliant match for the dowerless, orphan girl. from
in some way essential.
inspired by the emperors’ presence were eager for action. the
in spite of himself (although he knew how far it was safe to trust
in spite of prince andrew’s disagreeable, ironical tone, in spite of
in spite of repeated demands boots had not been issued by the austrian
in spite of the animation of his speech, bilíbin did not forget to
in spite of this, both the face and words of his new acquaintance were
instantly dropped them again. all the blood which had seemed congested
instantly his regret at not having been in action and his dejected mood
instead of black. the regimental commander walked with his jerky steps
instead of firing it, flung it at the frenchman and ran with all his
instead of that he only excited himself more and more.
in step, and each one of these hundreds of soldiers seemed to be
instructing in reading, writing, and religion. on all his estates pierre
instructions his father had sent and taking the correspondence and his
instructions to major ekonómov, he could not help taking notice of the
instrument he could not begin to speak.
insufficient, and he kept expecting something more, more and yet more.
intellectual pride,” said the princess, following the train of her own
intelligent, and resolute young man.
intelligent, how is it you don’t see that if the count has written a
intemperance, and his mouth twitched nervously. the general looked the
intended for you too. give them to the woman whom you shall honor most
intended to take up our position and begin the action, but were on this
intended to visit all his estates and see for himself how far his orders
intending to rest if but for a moment, eat something, and try to sort
intends to expose his precious person to the chances of war. god grant
intention of killing your man as quickly and surely as possible, and
intention of proposing, and today or tomorrow he would probably ask
intention should he try to direct his whole force against our faithful
intention to part from her forever.
intercourse with young women.
interested the minister of war less than any of the other matters he was
interesting.”
interesting and entertaining. after the field marshal’s departure
interesting but hardly feasible.”
interests,” said bilíbin.
interfere, making a scene on the very threshold of a dying man’s room?
interpreted. the life of old prince bolkónski, prince andrew, and
interrupting one another and mingling with the rustling of dresses and
intervene. prince andrew looked at túshin from under his brows and his
interview? why negotiate, and above all why retreat, when to retreat is
“in that case...” began willarski, but pierre interrupted him.
“in that case he is inviting his doom by awaiting our attack,” said
“in that case we can go,” said willarski. “my carriage is at your
in that happy mood in which everything seems possible and everything
in the afternoon, having made all his calls, he was returning to
in the army, besides the subordination and discipline prescribed in the
in the assurance that the rumors about the emperor being wounded were
in the autumn of 1806 everybody had again begun talking of the war with
in the autumn the rostóvs returned to moscow. early in the winter
in the baggage train he had passed that morning on the znaim road seven
in the beginning of the winter of 1805-6 pierre received one of anna
in the best possible manner, and feeling that he was doing it well he
in the common motion the result and aim of which are beyond its ken.
in the country.”
in the count’s room, which was full of tobacco smoke, they talked
in the darkness, it seemed as though a gloomy unseen river was flowing
in the deathlike stillness only the tramp of horses was heard. this
in the dining room, which like all the rooms in the house was
in the drawing room, talking to the little princess and mademoiselle
in the drawing room the conversation was still going on.
in the drawing room, waiting for borís to come out. she was already
in the emperor’s suite all exchanged rapid looks that expressed
in the emperors’ suite were the picked young orderly officers of the
in the evening, after supper, when all were about to retire, anatole
in the evening andrew and pierre got into the open carriage and drove to
in the evening,” reported rostóv, stooping forward with his hand at
in the fresh morning air were now heard, not two or three musket shots
in the garden, or superintending the building that was always going on
in the hair, the hair combed up, and the blue scarf arranged lower on
in the house on the povarskáya rose before him with such vividness,
in the house was done in haste at that time), and pierre and anna
in their childlike glee, aroused by the fire and their luck in
in their own play.
in their power.
in the letter from his parents was enclosed a letter of recommendation
in the light of the dull autumn evening, mounted men coming toward him.
in the meadow behind the village, three of them are dragging something.
in the mean jocular way common to anonymous letters said that he saw
in the meantime, not only was it known in the maidservants’ rooms that
in the middle of his story, just as he was saying: “you cannot imagine
in the middle of the line that had seemed so terrible—and now he
in the midst of a conversation on political matters anna pávlovna burst
in the midst of the third écossaise there was a clatter of chairs being
in the military profession, so to an even greater extent bilíbin gave
in the mist.
in the morning all that was left of the night mist on the heights was
in the morning anna mikháylovna said to pierre:
in the night he called his valet and told him to pack up to go to
in the other the letter, and pressing them alternately to her lips.
in the passage denísov, with a pipe, was squatting on the threshold
in the rearguard, dokhtúrov and others rallying some battalions kept up
in the room next their bedroom there was a confusion of sabers,
in the same order in which they had entered but with redder faces, the
in the same tone.
in the same tone.
in the second room of the inn the lieutenant was sitting over a dish of
“in the seventh place, try, by the frequent thought of death,” the
in the small circular room. around the table all who were at count
in the spring of 1807 he decided to return to petersburg. on the way he
in the streets of petersburg in an old uniform. he made friends with
in the sutler’s hut without his boots.” he recognized the agreeable,
in the third circle, narýshkin was speaking of the meeting of the
in the viennese drawing rooms and often had an influence on matters
in the village of hosjeradek there were russian troops retiring from
in the world and above everything in the world. “what were losses, and
in this part of the house and did not even know of the existence of
in this room it was almost dark; only two tiny lamps were burning before
intimately. prince andrew spoke with some animation and interest only of
intimately regretted that he had died so young, leaving a pregnant wife
into a careless, merry smile. “what am i? an illegitimate son!”
into action as arranged, and after going behind other columns for
“into action! into action! bring him a bottle for such news! but how
into borís’ eyes. after he had gone pierre continued pacing up and
into her heart an impulse that was against his will. my wife—as she
into her radiant smile.
into his room one evening in the official and ceremonious manner in
in to inform the commander in chief of this and, availing himself
“in token of obedience, i ask you to undress.”
intonation, look, and expression, pricked up her ears from the beginning
in too”—different voices were saying in the crowd, as the men looked
into sobs.
into step with a hop, looked back angrily, and through the ominous
into the corridor and met—coming out of the door of the emperor’s
into the distance, at the waters of the danube, at the sky, and at the
into the insignificant, trifling, and artificial interests uniting that
in to the minister of war. five minutes later he returned and bowing
into the naïvely symmetrical pose of an egyptian statue, evidently
in to the utmost, their red necks squeezed into their stiff collars, and
into the valley. he greeted the men of the foremost regiment and gave
into the water. he tried to right himself but fell in up to his waist.
into the water, or when he challenged a man to a duel without any
into which we have been drawn, god knows how or why. not only where you
intoxication. he felt as though he were the center of some important and
intriguer!” she hissed viciously, and tugged with all her might at the
invalid chair, a wax taper in his left hand, was leaning his left arm on
invalid,” said anna pávlovna, exchanging an alarmed glance with her
invent him,” said the wit shinshín, parodying the words of voltaire.
in vienna knew him and valued him. he was not one of those many
invincibility of the french, and the minister of war does not even care
invitation to anna pávlovna’s reception and had sat listening to
involuntarily came closer to him.
involuntarily, came up and sat down beside him.
involuntarily noticed that one of them was bleeding, and galloped on.
involuntarily, so much so that the only thing left to do seemed to be
in war on our own frontiers, with and for the king of prussia. we have
in which kutúzov entrusted them to the humanity of the enemy; and
in zherkóv, looking uneasily around. he had not seen the hussars all
“i often think,” she continued after a short pause, drawing nearer
“i often think, though, perhaps it’s a sin,” said the princess,
iogel’s were the most enjoyable balls in moscow. so said the mothers
i only wanted to know your opinion,” and anna pávlovna let pierre go.
“i ought to tell you that i do not believe... do not believe in
“i peg of you yourself not to mix in vot is not your business!”
“i promised to pay tomorrow,” said nicholas.
“i quite understand,” answered princess mary, with a sad smile.
i really take it? how fortunate!” he thought.
“i recognize you only too well, too well.”
“i rely on you, my dear,” said anna pávlovna, also in a low tone.
“i request you to have the goodness to change your coat,” he said as
ironical voice.
irreparable. there was no insult on either side. allow me to
irrepressible hatred.
irreproachably washed, brushed, and buttoned, held his pipe in the
irresistible human need for sleep. he really was asleep. weyrother, with
irresistibly attractive to pierre.
irresolution communicated itself to the men.
irritation.
“i said from the first,” declared anna pávlovna referring to
is all i have to say to you. the count is very, very ill, and you must
is a mob of scoundrels and not an army,” he was thinking as he went
is an admirable book which calms and elevates the soul. adieu! give
is a very good thing, but not for you—i don’t suppose you ever had
“i saw him myself,” replied the man with a self-confident smile of
“i saw the pávlograd hussars attack there, your excellency,” chimed
“i saw you riding this morning...” he added.
“i say, berg, my dear fellow,” said rostóv, “when you get a
“i say, come round some evening and we’ll have a game of faro!”
“i say, father, joking apart, is she very hideous?” anatole asked,
“i say, fédeshon!... did he say when the battles are to begin? you
“i say, rostóv,” said dólokhov clearly, smiling and looking
“i say, shall we soon be clear? they say the cavalry are blocking the
“i say so,” he continued desperately, “because the bourbons fled
“i say, this is folly! he’ll be killed,” said this more sensible
“i say, we’ve been in the front line! our regiment attacked!” said
is betraying us! russia alone must save europe. our gracious sovereign
is called weak character, do not seek a confidant in their troubles. he
is connected with the montmorencys through the rohans, one of the best
is denísov!”
“is everything quite all right?”
is for myself.”
is going as a cadet. there’s no one to interest himself for him. to
is good to have a friend like the prince,” she said, smiling at prince
“i shall always remember that in this world one must expect no reward,
“i shall at any rate not run after a young man before visitors...”
“i shall be delighted to meet them,” said the prince. “but
i shall be in a more prominent position,” continued berg, “and
i shall be very charmed to see you tonight between 7 and 10—annette
i shall conclude will be worthy of my people, of you, and of myself.
i shall expect you, drubetskóy. au revoir!” exclaimed prince andrew,
“i shall probably die before you. so remember, these are my memoirs;
“i shall scarcely be able to avail myself of your hospitality,
“is he really to be my husband, this stranger who is so kind—yes,
“i should like,” said the vicomte, “to ask how monsieur explains
“i should like to go to kurágin’s,” thought he.
“i should like to speak well of them, but as far as i know the facts,
“i should never dare to say that i know the truth,” said the mason,
“i should not be doing my duty, count,” he said in timid tones,
“i should think he has a score of them.”
“i should think not,” said véra, “because there can never be
“‘i showed them the path to glory, but they did not follow
is how i explain it to myself. it can’t be helped!”
is interrupted. he listened to what langeron said, as if remarking,
“is it certain?” she said.
“is it for visitors you’ve got yourself up like that, eh?” said
“is it possible?” exclaimed anna mikháylovna. “oh, how awful!
“is it true that austrians have been beaten?” asked dólokhov.
“is it worth while noticing trifles?” he reined in his horse with
is much better than ours.”
is my witness,” and she made the sign of the cross, “i love her so
is not abashed now, so she cannot be a bad woman!” he had often begun
is nothing but a trick! he has retreated and ordered the rearguard to
is not my fault that i want it and want nothing but that and live only
is not so, then...”
is now on the staff.”
is now rushing along the road to brünn and will be here in a day or
isn’t it logical?
“isn’t she exquisite?” she said to pierre, pointing to the stately
“isn’t she too young? i have heard that it harms the voice to train
“is papa at home?” he asked.
is pua’ as on the fihst day of cweation... who’s that now? send him
is so fond of?” he remembered his mother’s love for him, and his
is so i don’t know...”
is, stormed and stormed and stormed! it was not a matter of life but
is such men as he who decide the fate of nations,” added bolkónski
“is that mary practicing? let’s go quietly and take her by
“is that so? and what did he say?” inquired bolkónski.
is that the emperor is here. how he looked at me and wished to say
is the baby born?”
“is the englishman bragging?... eh? is it all right?” said anatole.
is the one held by the majority of people, and is the invariable fruit
is the only difference between them.” he said this smiling in a way
is the only thing left me—not singing!” his thoughts ran on. “go
“is there sufficient forage in krems?”
“is this good or bad?” pierre asked himself. “it is good for me,
“is this the way to the princesses’ apartments?” asked anna
“is this your saber?” asked pétya. “or is it yours?” he said,
“is this your saber?” he shouted.
“i still can’t understand what you are afraid of,” said prince
is to take care of yourself. leave it to those who are no longer fit for
is vanity, all falsehood, except that infinite sky. there is nothing,
is very unhappy with her father. she is a relation of yours, princess
it.
it.
it.”
it?”
italian: “‘dio mi l’ha dato. guai a chi la tocchi!’’
italian to give her lessons.”
“it all depends on the bringing up,” remarked the visitor.
it all very well for prince vasíli told me himself. besides, cyril
italy and on the rhine; how fifty thousand russians and as many english
it. and he is so clever and so good!” said natásha. “don’t
it and saw telyánin’s horse at the porch.
it and wished to hear it again. in her voice there was a virginal
it...” answered her son coldly. “but i have promised and will do it
it appears that we are within sight of the enemy and must give battle.
it at that age.”
it. at that moment it meant nothing to him who might be standing over
it. but at that moment an adjutant galloped up with a message from the
it can’t be a square—for they are not drawn up for that.”
“it can’t be helped! it happens to everyone!” said the son, with
it can’t be helped!” said the count, shrugging his shoulders and
“it can’t be!” said rostóv. “it must have been someone else.”
it dashed, some forward and some back, drowning one another.
it, easily find a way to prepare for the enemy the fate he deserves.
i tell her how i’ve seen the emperor?) natásha... take my
i tell you buonaparte was a great tactician? here, he says the same
i tell you he is in our hands, that’s certain! but what was most
“i tell you,” shouted denísov, “he’s a fine fellow.”
it escape from his handsome mouth in rings. this was lieutenant berg, an
it. feel in your pockets.”
it. fr... fr... fr! and don’t i see that that idiot had eyes only for
it had appeared. the count sat on the sofa between two guests who were
it had the commander in chief continued to look at him, and so kutúzov,
“it has begun. here it is!” thought prince andrew, feeling the
“i... that’s different. why speak of me? i don’t want any other
“i think i may congratulate you,” whispered anna pávlovna to the
“i think,” said the prince with a smile, “that if you had been
“i think the battle will be lost, and so i told count tolstóy and
i think there were not many such gallant sons of the fatherland out
“i thought perhaps something had happened,” she said with her
“i thought today’s fete had been canceled. i confess all these
it. if you refuse him on my account, i must tell you the whole truth. i
it is a bit of mack. we are macked),” he concluded, feeling that he
“it is all, all her fault,” he said to himself; “but what of that?
“it is all very well for rostóv, whose father sends him ten thousand
“it is an illness, there’s no other way of explaining it,” said
“it is done!” she said to the count, pointing triumphantly to the
“it is dreadful, dreadful!” she was saying, “but cost me what it
   it is for thee thus swells her heart,
“it is for the reasson, my goot sir,” said he, speaking with a
it is for you to talk or think of such matters. it is no easier for
it is. my dear pet!”
“it is now my turn to ask you ‘why?’ mon cher,” said bolkónski.
“it is of great importance to me,” she said, turning with a smile
it is past midnight—cannot now be altered,” said he. “you have
it is said ‘there are thieves among the pávlograd officers!’ but
“it is some letter of recommendation... what the devil do i want it
it is terrible to think.... this is my son,” she added, indicating
“it is the buonapartists who say that,” replied the vicomte without
“it is the sword of frederick the great which i...” she began, but
“it is too late now, it’s done; besides i love her,” thought
“it is very good of you, monsieur pierre, to come and visit a poor
“it is very strange, mon monsieur prince,” said the staff officer.
it is. you must know. we will take it at once and show it to the
“it’ll be worse for you. bogdánich is vindictive and you’ll pay
it’ll be worse if he fires the bridge. see, here’s an officer jammed
“it may be he or it may be nothing,” muttered the hussar. “it’s
“it may be treachery,” said prince andrew, vividly imagining the
it might really have been so? could one possibly make out amid all that
“it must be one of ours, a prisoner. yes. can it be that they will
it necessary to introduce himself, and without experiencing the least
it, next day, november 15, after dinner he again went to olmütz and,
“i told you it was all lumps and holes!” the little princess
it on his coat and supported himself with it. his frowning face was
it on something, and told him to hold a pair of compasses to his left
it, on the crest of the opposite hill, the village of schön grabern
it on the field at schön grabern. young rostóv’s ecstatic voice
it or not, and how they would cross it, agitated them all.
it, or why it had to be told in russian, still anna pávlovna and the
it,’” prince andrew continued after a short silence, again quoting
it really happened, it would have been necessary to make an effort of
it right to refuse a duty to which he had been appointed by the emperor
i trouble myself about you, and you also know quite well that what i
“it’s a bad business, eh?”
“it’s a bad business,” said the general without answering him,
“it’s a lackey’s job!”
“it’s all about the war,” the count shouted down the table. “you
“it’s all over; but i am a coward—yes, a coward!” thought
“it’s all the fault of these fellows on the staff that there’s
“it’s all the same now. if the emperor is wounded, am i to try to
“it’s all the same to me,” he said. “i only want to see whether
“it’s all up! i’m lost!” thought he. “now a bullet through my
“it’s all very well for you... i am not envious... i love you and
        “it’s a long, long way.
“it’s a long time since we met,” he said. “thanks for coming.
“it’s ancient history,” said another, guessing that it referred to
“it’s andrew!” thought princess mary. “no it can’t be, that
“it’s a shame for a soldier to steal; a soldier must be honest,
“it’s as if a dam had burst,” said the cossack hopelessly. “are
it’s as if it had been done on purpose, on purpose. besides, suppose
its broad temples and close-cropped hair, and looked at bezúkhov. the
it’s definite and one is rid of the old tormenting doubt.” pierre
“it’s different on different days,” answered the captain. “one
it seemed as if from some words borís had spoken that evening about the
it seemed as if nothing in that voice could be altered without spoiling
it seemed quite natural that they should cry, and apparently it never
it seemed so natural to pierre that everyone should like him, and it
it seemed to her that not only did everybody know that her fate would be
it seemed to him that he was being fired at. “what? what? what?... cut
it seemed to pierre, sunk in profound and calm meditation. his servant
it seemed to pierre that he grew embarrassed. pierre himself grew still
“it seems funny to me,” said pierre, “that you, you should
“it seems that there will be no need to bring mary out, suitors are
“it seems that while he was abroad this young man was allowed to do
itself?”
itself, a petty german town, rostóv saw the emperor again. in the
itself, rejoicing at the emperors’ approach, had naturally burst into
itself to him. he was already enjoying that happiness when that
“it’s empty.”
its handsome, sensual mouth, and its cold, majestic expression, was
it, she was herself in such high spirits at that moment, so far from
“it’s impossible,” replied another.
“it’s in the inlaid portfolio that he keeps under his pillow,”
its last march the day before—presented a well-ordered array of two
it’s not all the same to us! am i not right, denísov? it’s not the
“it’s not at all from friendship,” declared nicholas, flaring
“it’s not going to be a ghost story?” said he, sitting down beside
“it’s nothing, nothing; leave me alone!” sobbed sónya.
“it’s nothing,” replied prince andrew.
it’s not pleasant, but what’s to be done, my dear fellow? you landed
“it’s not that i don’t remember—i know what he is like, but not
“it’s not there.”
“it’s not true!”
“it’s plain that they have not all gone yet, prince,” said
it’s splendid. i am very glad to have made your acquaintance. it’s
“it’s that protégé of yours, that sweet princess drubetskáya,
“it’s the enemy?... no!... yes, see it is!... for certain.... but
its thunder joining the roar of the whole line along which he had
it’s too late now when vienna is occupied by the french army!”
it’s true he has been reinstated, but how could they fail to do that?
its upper lip covered with tiny black hair.
its use, he does not believe in the master who made it. to know him is
its usual semblance of a smile.
“it’s wonderful what a lot of our troops have gathered, lads! last
it. telyánin took the purse and began carelessly slipping it into the
it timidly and tenderly on her son’s arm, “be affectionate and
it to be alleged that he had been the first to leave the range of fire,
it to its destination and make use of it.
it turns out that ‘the enemy of the human race’ pays no heed to
it turns out that we have landed ourselves in war, and what is more,
it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included with this
it under your head like a treasure,” said rostóv. “i put it just
“it von’t go begging,” replied the german with a smile.
it was all that they could do to get the guns up the rise aided by the
“it was all they could do to rescue the poor man,” continued the
it was already quite dark when prince andrew rattled over the paved
it was a warm, rainy, autumnal day. the wide expanse that opened out
it was evident that he did not like the vicomte and was aiming his
it was evident that he performed his duty as a subordinate with even
it was evident that prince andrew was not interested in such abstract
it was evident that this strange, strong man was under the irresistible
it was impossible to get rid of them.
it was, in fact, solely to meet prince vasíli that she had obtained an
it was in july, 1805, and the speaker was the well-known anna pávlovna
it was just the moment before a big dinner when the assembled guests,
it was late in the evening when they entered the palace at olmütz
it was long before their conversation could settle on anything. they
it was long since rostóv had felt such enjoyment from music as he
it was long since the rostóvs had news of nicholas. not till midwinter
“it was my fault, mon père,” interceded the little princess, with a
it was napoleon accompanied by two aides-de-camp. bonaparte riding
it was nine o’clock in the morning. the fog lay unbroken like a sea
it was no longer, as before, a dark, unseen river flowing through the
it was not so, that i had no right to do it. and so it turns out.”
it was not the dress, but the face and whole figure of princess mary
it was one of those march nights when winter seems to wish to resume its
it was past one o’clock when pierre left his friend. it was a
it was plain that this cadet had already repeatedly asked for a lift and
it was plain that this “well?” referred to much that they both
it was pleasant and touching to see these little girls in love; but
it was prince andrew. the first thing he saw on riding up to the space
it was rumored that savary had been sent to propose to alexander
it was st. natalia’s day and the name day of two of the rostóvs—the
it was that the pain distracted him and prevented his seeing what he had
it was, the disorder was readily and naturally attributed to the stupid
“it was the officer, your honor, stained it,” answered the
it was the second night that neither of them had slept, watching the boy
it was true that a view over nearly the whole russian position and the
it were not his. he examined his hand carefully, vainly trying to find
it were not my duty i would not talk to you for a moment”), was
it with you?...”
it won’t be your skirmishing at dürrenstein, or gunpowder at all,
it worth thinking or speaking of it at such a moment? at a time of such
it would be different if you grudged losing a laborer—that’s how i
“it would be good,” thought prince andrew, glancing at the icon his
it would have been difficult for a face to express greater respect and
“it would have been hard to drive up, your honor,” he added. “i
it would not ache—it would be well—if only they did not pull it, but
“it would not be turned off the field even on the tsarítsin
it!’ ‘yes, let’s!’ say the others. and off they go and take the
it you talked about?” and prince andrew crooked a third finger. “ah,
ivánovich. he is in a very bad humor, very morose. be prepared.”
ivánovich kutúzov:
ivánovich (who always went into a corner to blow his nose on his
“i’ve been sent back to the regiment all on account of that devil,
“i’ve come to say good-by.”
“i’ve come to sit with you a bit, másha,” said the nurse, “and
i’ve nothing against it,” the prince said to himself, “but he must
“i’ve seen him myself!”
“i want a great deal, count! i want five hundred rubles,” and taking
“i want nothing, and i won’t be anyone’s adjutant.”
“i want to know!”
“i want to teach this young man how to shoe a horse,” said
“i was attached; i’m on duty.”
“i was coming to tell you so.”
“i was going to ask you. i know nothing except that it was all i could
i was right. without boasting, you know, i may say that i know the army
i was saying, prince vasíli is the next heir through his wife, but the
“i was there,” said rostóv angrily, as if intending to insult the
i was to blame for not understanding her, for not understanding that
“i was told a charming moscow story today and must treat you to it.
“i was very much surprised when i heard of it,” said prince andrew.
“i? what have i...?” stammered pierre.
“i will allow no one to call me a liar!” cried rostóv. “he told
“i will do it all, father,” he said.
“i will do so,” said prince andrew, moving away from the map.
“i will give the order.”
“i will, i will, only tell me! you won’t? then i will go and tell at
“i will,” replied natásha.
“i will tell you frankly,” said prince vasíli in the tone of
“i will the bridge fire,” he said in a solemn tone as if to announce
“i will, your excellency,” said timókhin, showing by his smile that
“i wished to get a nap, mon cousin, but i can’t.”
“i wonder, is it not too late to administer unction?” asked the
“i won’t say he is out of sorts, but i fancy he would like to be
“i won’t tell anyone!” and she ran off at once to sónya.
jabbering! fine, isn’t it? it’s all the frenchy can do to keep up
jacket.
“jacob, bring a bottle!” shouted the host, a tall, handsome fellow
jaw trembling and was hardly able to mutter: “i don’t know... your
jerked away his plate, which tíkhon briskly caught. “suvórov!...
jest.
jests and gossip.
jests fell flat, news was not interesting, and the animation was
jest was unacceptable and had not come off. he grew confused.
“je vous aime!” * he said, remembering what has to be said at such
jingling sound it presented arms. then amidst a dead silence the
joined kutúzov at braunau now separated from the russian army, and
joins the allies, austria’s hand will be forced and there will be war.
joke, and purposely trying to appear stupider than he really was.
jokes, sit on the cannon, and meanwhile a french battalion gets to
jolted over the stony road. some of them were talking (he heard russian
jovial old gentleman, who standing beside his tall and stout partner,
joy and happiness. on receiving the order he gave his horse the rein
joy at the approach of the emperors. one voice was heard shouting:
joyful and mysterious taking place within her.
joyful, but an animal, squirrel-like expression. she paused as if she
joyful it seemed, that her son, the scarcely perceptible motion of whose
joyfully that the men themselves were awed by their multitude and the
joyfully up to pierre. his face was so unusually triumphant that pierre
joys and sorrows of this world—overflowed the great grief within her.
joy to give my franz a thaler, or let him go with his liebchen to the
julie
julie wrote in french:
jumped down. he smelt strongly of rum.
jump, túshin not taking his pipe from his mouth ran from gun to gun,
junction advisable, meant, among other arguments in support of his view,
just above his ear.
just as at ulm... it is...”—he seemed to be trying to find the right
just as he was going to open it the sounds ceased, the door opened, and
just as he went in he saw that the nurse was hiding something from him
“just as i may suppose you to be deluded,” said pierre, with a faint
just as in a clock, the result of the complicated motion of innumerable
just as in the mechanism of a clock, so in the mechanism of the military
just as prince andrew met nesvítski and zherkóv, there came toward
just as prince andrew was a young man who gave promise of rising high
just as the architect, gardener, or princess mary did, till the prince
just as the mother and son, having reached the middle of the hall, were
just at moments when such thoughts occurred to him, he would ask in a
just before dinner, count ilyá rostóv presented his son to bagratión,
just come out of a hot bath.”
just completed. he lay with his head propped high on the pillows. his
just left.... it is true that it was hot there,” he added, modestly.
“just look at the master! a regular eagle he is!” loudly remarked
just returned from abroad where he had been educated, and this was his
just returned from vienna, two diplomatists, the old aunt, a young man
“just see, the german sausage is making tracks, too!”
“just see where it carries to!” a soldier near by said sternly,
just such a story—they would either not have believed him or, still
just then a closed carriage and another with a hood drove up to the
just then another visitor entered the drawing room: prince andrew
just then at a distance behind kutúzov was heard the sound of regiments
just then zherkóv entered the room.
“just to flutter the nuns a bit. they say there are italian girls
just under the icons; his large thick hands outside the quilt. into the
just visible behind a screen. a small dog began to bark.
kaiser alexander hoch!” *(2) said he, quoting words often repeated by
kámenski, visited the english club, and was on intimate terms with a
karl give no signs of life and make blunder after blunder. kutúzov
keen interest in the whole affair. you know she is very gracious to
keen-sighted a companion. “you know, you see right through people.
keep from laughter provoked by a swarthy hussar officer who walked
keeping pierre close beside her, entered the room even more boldly than
keep you long as an adjutant: a bad position! tell him i remember
kept coming into her eyes. anna mikháylovna, with the letter, came on
kept looking round toward the drawing room door. it opened and nicholas
kept turning his horse in front of the squadron.
kerchief, and the loose skin that hung under her chin.
kiev province, where he had the greatest number of serfs, taking with
killed and if i have a son, do not let him be taken away from you—as i
killed anyone, or insulted or wished harm to anyone? why such a terrible
killed by a cannon ball—struck in the breast before our regiment.”
killed.” rook tried to rise on his forelegs but fell back, pinning his
killed them, yes!” said he, frowning angrily and turning away from
killed, you are a fool and are lost for certain. but go with the firm
kill me.” but at the same time, his left arm felt as heavy as if
“kill the germans!” shouted one.
kind, because he has been a benefactor to them both. as sterne says:
kindhearted, and because they—friends from childhood—had to think
kindle fires and make a noise to deceive us.”
kindle in all hearts the flame of virtue. share thy happiness with thy
“kind...ly let—them—pass!”
“kindly let this cart pass. don’t you see it’s a woman?” said
“kindly return to your posts,” said the staff officer trying to
kindly, smiling, handsome face and moist eyes. nesvítski could hardly
kindness!” he turned to go.
kindness,” or, “with your excellent heart,” “you are yourself so
kind of talk, and at last all stopped. as often happens, the horses of
kind relation. but, nataly, you know my love for my son: i would do
kinds overtaking one another and blocking the muddy road, three and
kind sprang from a second door and a third; more hugging, more kissing,
kind, that is the chief thing,” thought princess mary; and fear, which
king francis is not much delighted by your victory. even i, a poor
king of prussia and others: ‘so much the worse for you. tu l’as
king of prussia what he is to do if he is summoned to surrender.... all
kírsten. the staff captain on his broad-backed, steady mare came at a
kissed. her father in jest tried to rouse her jealousy, and she replied
kissed her forehead.
kissed her hand, presenting to her his bald, scented, and shining head,
kissed him at the same time. only his mother was not there, he noticed
kissed him three times.
kissed mademoiselle bourienne’s hand. (this was not etiquette, but
kissed princess mary’s hand. she did not know how she found the
kisses. her looks asked him to forgive her for having dared, by
kissing each other on the face, and then to prince andrew’s surprise
kissing her hand, he left the room with quick resolute strides, without
kiss me,” and he offered his cheek.
“kiss me here,” and he touched his cheek: “thanks, thanks!”
“kiss the doll,” said she.
kitten which promises to become a beautiful little cat. she evidently
knapsacks, bayonets, long muskets, and, under the shakos, faces with
knapsacks conveyed on carts, and the austrian authorities had provided
knees, some squatting turkish fashion on the wet grass.
knee with the palm of his hand.
knew....”
knew that. what will be the result? that i shall be the laughingstock of
knew that when it appeared on her face, she became mute and was not to
knew till after eight o’clock.
knew what had happened to him as he knew it himself.
knew what those society women are, and women in general! my father is
knight. “i’m even weady to dance the pas de châle.”
knitting a striped scarf for him.
knitting, went to the window and leaning out tried to catch the open
knocked three of them over.
knocking over two horses and another tearing off a munition-wagon
knoll; if they had retreated they would have withdrawn from that too....
know!”
know all about it and understand it all,” he said. “you behaved as
know, and know for certain, that the enjoyment of doing this good is the
know, but he felt sure it would do so. the locality and the position of
know god and hate your life. there is nothing strange in that, my dear
know his character: noble, upright ... but you see he has no one with
know how fond the count is of her.”
know how to dance, had liked sitting in this room to watch the ladies
know how to deal with them.”
know how to equip borís.” she took out her handkerchief and began to
know how to express it ... not by a balance of political power....”
knowing how. first he spun her round, holding her now with his left, now
knowing that denísov had a reputation even in poland for the masterly
know it is all over, and forever.”
knowledge.
know my principles—everything aboveboard! i will ask her tomorrow in
know myself again.”
know my son’s going, márya dmítrievna? my son is going.”
known as la femme la plus séduisante de pétersbourg, * was also there.
known). drawing nearer, he recognized in the rhetor a man he knew,
   knows by experience, now, bagratión,
know that ourselves!” another, without looking round, as though
know! the prussians are up in arms now. the austrians, you see, are
“know this, másha: i can’t reproach, have not reproached, and never
know what it is to be left a widow without means and with a son you love
know yourself that last winter the count made a will by which he left
kórchevo—a certain khandrikóv—is up to; till now the additional
kozlóvski were squatting on the floor by a tub so near to the commander
kozlóvski, who was sitting at the window with a book.
kronq,—chargé d’affaires from copenhagen—a profound intellect,”
“kurágin is exquisite when he discusses politics—you should see his
kurágins’. all maintained a solemn silence, listening to the words
kurágin was expecting the usual set for cards that evening, after which
     *kutúzov.
kutúzov.
kutúzov accompanied by his adjutants rode at a walking pace behind the
kutúzov bowed with the same smile.
kutúzov chose this latter course.
kutúzov did not reply. he seemed to have forgotten what he had been
kutúzov fell back toward vienna, destroying behind him the bridges over
kutúzov here woke up, coughed heavily, and looked round at the
kutúzov, he was sent immediately with a special dispatch to brünn.
kutúzov laughed bitterly.
kutúzov looked sternly at his adjutant and, after a pause, replied:
kutúzov no one spoke of, except some who abused him in whispers,
kutúzov ... recommend borís to him as adjutant! then i shall be at
kutúzov’s, collected in groups and began to talk about the awards,
kutúzov’s expectations that the proposals of capitulation (which were
kutúzov’s face as he stood in the open doorway remained perfectly
kutúzov’s headquarters and the staffs of the commanders of columns.
kutúzov sighed deeply on finishing this paragraph and looked at the
kutúzov’s suite like a flock of little birds.
kutúzov’s whole army. to be able to crush it absolutely he awaited
kutúzov, there is not a single russian in command of a column! the
kutúzov turned away. the same smile of the eyes with which he had
kutúzov turned round without answering and his eye happened to fall
kutúzov walked slowly and languidly past thousands of eyes which were
kutúzov walked through the ranks, sometimes stopping to say a few
kutúzov was left with only his own weak and exhausted forces. the
kutúzov was occupying a nobleman’s castle of modest dimensions near
kutúzov went out into the porch with bagratión.
kutúzov, where he inquired for bolkónski, all the adjutants and even
kutúzov, whom he had overtaken in poland, had received him very kindly,
kutúzov with his eagle nose and puffy face appeared in the doorway.
kutúzov with his staff and all of us count for nothing. everything is
kutúzov, with his suite diminished by more than half, rode toward a
kutúzov, with his uniform unbuttoned so that his fat neck bulged over
kutúzov writes...” and he screamed as piercingly as if he wished to
kuzmích, asking what the point of the story was as he had not heard it
“kuzmích... from all sides... and then tears,” someone repeated
“la balance y est... * a german knows how to skin a flint, as the
labor but should die of it in a week, so he could not stand my physical
labor is as essential to him, as much a condition of his existence, as
labor was thus increased, though lessened on paper. he did not know
lackeys who care nothing for their master’s business. quarante mille
lack the bump of paternity.”
lad,” he said, addressing his favorite soldier. “and where is the
ladies and gentlemen than rostóv had ever expected to see him.
ladies and, leaning on his saber and beating time with his foot, told
ladies’ end an even chatter of voices was heard all the time, at the
ladies—” he turned with the same request to denísov who was also a
lad jumped awkwardly back into the room, tripping over his spurs.
lad’s a fine fellow, a fine fellow! well, come with me now.” he took
“lads! here’s to our sovereign, the emperor, and victory over
“lads!” shouted milorádovich in a loud, self-confident, and cheery
lady, adding the priest’s clerical title, as if she had no opinion of
lady visitor.
“la femme est la compagne de l’homme,” * announced prince
lain in ambush in a ditch, now attacked the french unexpectedly.
lamp, she stood before it with folded hands for a few moments. a painful
lances and the unfolded standards fluttered against their staffs. it
langeron’s objections were valid but it was obvious that their chief
langeron, trying as virulently as possible to sting weyrother’s vanity
langeron, with a subtly ironical smile, again glancing round for support
language: english
lannes and was thrown into confusion. bagratión had sent zherkóv
large and handsome eyes. he regarded his whole life as a continual round
large dark ballroom. all was the same: there were the same old card
large estate, boguchárovo, about twenty-five miles from bald hills.
large leather sofa from prince andrew’s study into the bedroom. on
large, newly furnished petersburg house, the happy possessor, as people
larger circle.
largest landowner of the province. temptations to pierre’s greatest
larrey, was much more likely to end in death than in convalescence.
lashes, thick black plaits coiling twice round her head, and a tawny
last campaign, prince peter ivánovich bagratión!” and again his blue
last deciding seriously to prove to this youth how foolish his words
last few days. the antagonists stood forty paces apart at the farther
last interview with the gentleman-ranker—“that private dólokhov,
last long? it’s all the club and his easygoing nature. even in the
last mademoiselle bourienne gave a scream and ran away. anatole bowed to
last moments by not letting him commit this injustice, and not to let
last only his white plumes were visible to rostóv from amid the suites
last remaining strength, took hold of his left hand with his right, and
last summer, is so noble-minded and full of that real youthfulness which
last time. and suddenly, in the most casual tone, which made him feel
last updated: january 21, 2019
late in starting her practice on the clavichord, went into the sitting
“late! it’s nearly ten o’clock,” answered natásha’s voice.
later on. oh, how glad i am to have you!”
latest cut, such as no one else yet had in moscow, and boots of the
latest fashion, with extremely pointed toes and small silver spurs,
late that night, when all had separated, denísov with his short hand
lathe and, as usual, did not look round at her.
lathe?” asked prince andrew with a scarcely perceptible smile which
latterly spent whole days at home, that is, in prince vasíli’s house
latter threw up his arms in surprise saying it was nowhere to be found
laugh.
laugh. and they, too, passed on, so that nesvítski did not learn who
laughed.
laughed.
laughed at every word he said or that she said herself, not because what
laughed. “i dreamed last night...”—“you were not expecting
laughed loudest.
laughed spasmodically as he stood in the porch waiting for the vicomte
laughed. “véra’s spiteful; never mind her! and all will come right
laughing.
laughing.
laughing. “dear, dear!...”
laughing for some reason and shaking himself free.
laughing, “‘sergéy kuzmích... from all sides... from all sides...
laughter led by natásha. both partners stood still, breathing heavily
laughter that convulsed his usually impassive features.
laughter, the shouting of familiar voices, the growling of a bear, and
lavrúshka turned all the bedding over, looked under the bed and under
“lavwúska!” he shouted loudly and angrily, “take it off,
laws of its divine saviour, who preached love and forgiveness of
lay across the bed with his head lower than the pillow, and was smacking
lay in the general progress of the war. when he saw mack and heard the
lazily and advanced and again halted, receiving no timely orders from
leader, called les nôtres. * this set, consisting almost exclusively of
leading the tsar’s beautiful relay horses covered with embroidered
leaf, gave it to kozlóvski, stepped quickly to the window, and threw
leaned his arms on the back of the sofa and closed his eyes. pierre
leaning his elbow on his knee and covering his face with his hand. after
leaning with his arms on the back of the sofa, sat in his former
leaping the furrows, he fled across the field with the impetuosity he
learned that dólokhov the brawler, dólokhov the bully, lived in moscow
learn from suvórov even so simple a thing as the art of crowing like a
learning that he was a special messenger led him to another entrance.
learning, was well brought up, and had a pleasant voice; what she said
least disconcerted by this reception. he had just entered, wearing an
least have some for my sake! she must be shown that the blockhead thinks
“leave it,” said dólokhov, though he did not seem to be even
“leave me alone, please leave me alone! it is all quite the same to
leave me alone with him!”
leave of her and of lise, his look tender yet proud. she saw him tender
leave of rostóv in the club porch.
leave you cold a thousand times and the thousand and first time thrill
le charmant hippolyte was surprising by his extraordinary resemblance
led along a certain carpet. after that they took his right hand, placed
left...” a fat major skirted a bush, puffing and falling out of
left alone, pierre went on smiling in the same way. once or twice
left bank of the danube and took up a position for the first time
left breast, and stooping down pulled up the left leg of his trousers
left but to die?” he thought. “well, if need be, i shall do it no
left foot began convulsively tapping the horse’s side with the spur,
left him, rubbing his small white hands.
left like this. every moment is precious. i can’t think why his nieces
left the chair on which he had been leaning, and—with an air
legal heir to everything and you won’t get anything. you must know,
legs and turned-out toes, climbed the hill with difficulty.) prince
legs, looked directly at prince vasíli with no sign of emotion in her
lëlya’s name day. i will invite two or three people, and if he does
lemarrois had just arrived at a gallop with bonaparte’s stern letter,
length portrait of catherine the great. the same people were still
leonine head. this head, with its remarkably broad brow and cheekbones,
“le roi de prusse?” hippolyte said interrogatively, again laughing,
less a prey to evil and death?—death which ends all and must come
less, ate less, slept less, and became weaker every day. princess mary
lesson, was about to leave: “mathematics are most important, madam!
less sincerely than the twenty-year-old rostóv.
less than you do, but be a man!”
“let go, i tell you! i will take the responsibility. i myself will go
let her know.”
“let him do it, let him do it,” said dólokhov, smiling.
let him do what he vill, but i cannot sacrifice my hussars... bugler,
“let’s come, quick, quick!” and with a glance round, she smiled at
letter.
letter.
letter.
letter are not destroyed, then you will have nothing but the consolation
letter from home and meet one of your own people whom you want to talk
letter, he now was.
letters sent through the embassy and all the searches made, his body had
letters that had come from the archduke ferdinand, who was in command of
letters to nicholas from all the household were written and copied out,
letters to princess mary’s apartments, but did not find him there. he
letter to murat:
letter to the emperor begging him to recognize pierre as legitimate, it
“let them pass, i tell you!” repeated prince andrew, compressing his
let themselves be tricked at the crossing of the vienna bridge, you are
letting the retreating companies pass by them, when a soldier came up
letting yourself be tricked by an aide-de-camp of the emperor.
“let us go and have supper,” he said with a sigh, going to the door.
“let us go, iván lukích,” he said to the captain.
“let us go ourselves. i only came round to ask denísov about
“let us go to her, i must say good-by. or—go and wake and i’ll
“liberty and equality,” said the vicomte contemptuously, as if at
liberty not to believe me and i don’t even care whether you do or
lichtenstein, le prince, de hohenlohe, and finally prishprish, and so on
lid, drew out a drawer, and took out an exercise book filled with his
lieutenant general, our dear prince auersperg von mautern himself.
life, all alone—for papa is always busy, and i... well, you know what
life, and can’t, for i know no other. but think, andrew: for a young
life, and that of the seven virtues he lacked two—morality and the
“life as it is leaves one no peace. i should be thankful to do
life from yours. i don’t wish to marry,” she answered positively,
life guards, who had been losing that evening, climbed on the window
life, he felt an unaccountable tenderness for this young man and made up
life: remorse and illness. the only good is the absence of those evils.
life together were stripped, so that the screw could not get in or out,
life, which seemed to him so beautiful now that he had today learned to
lifted in childlike happiness.
lift his stick again but hurried into the house.
“lift it two lines more and it will be just right,” cried he in a
light blue viennese calèche, slightly creaking on its springs and drawn
lighted mirrors which repeated their reflections several times. now
light. it was evident that the more lifeless he seemed at ordinary
lightly, more lightly, and yet more lightly whirled the count, flying
lights and shouts in the enemy’s camp. rostóv rode up to bagratión,
lights of shops, houses, and street lamps, fine carriages, and all that
like a bird than a man.”
like a child, he fell into a deep, youthful slumber.
like a horse running downhill harnessed to a heavy cart. whether he was
like all those polish names.”
liked to. he looked inquiringly at his monitress and saw that she was
liked to help young men, was flattered by being asked for his assistance
liked to repeat to herself. it was the story of a girl who had been
liked to tell him. he gathered up the papers and with a bow to both,
like his own, at the firing, and went back at a footpace. “well, some
likely the doctor.”
like method of enlightenment. our order imitates the ancient societies
likes her way of reading. she reads to him in the evenings and reads
like strangers.”
like that six months ago?”
like the others, anna pávlovna schérer showed pierre the change of
like these if one has any feeling?” said anna pávlovna. “you are
like wind over leaves ran an excited whisper: “they’re coming!
line and that of the enemy were far apart on the right and left flanks,
line; and the austrian troops. but they all stood in the same lines,
line followed them across and the last cossacks quitted the farther side
line, for from where they had been before it had been evident that it
linen shirt unfastened in front. “wait a bit, you fellows.... here is
line of the advancing russian columns. evidently the person they were
lines of artillery with green caissons.
line (the guards) was already in action.
line—the officers had been unable to keep sight-seers away. the
line to reconnoiter personally, and twice to the emperors, russian and
lingered for a moment.
link which other people recognized had grown up between himself and
lips.
lips and met them with her own. her face struck pierre, by its altered,
“lise, i beg you to desist,” said prince andrew still more
lise. i will follow.”
“lise!” said prince andrew dryly, raising his voice to the pitch
lise sighed too.
lise? take her to your room and i’ll go to father. how is he? just the
“lise!” was all prince andrew said. but that one word expressed
lise, young bolkónski’s wife, this very evening, and perhaps the
“listen, dear annette,” said the prince, suddenly taking anna
listened attentively. his favorite occupation when not playing boston, a
listened, refraining from a reply, and involuntarily wondered how this
listened to his regular breathing. the dark shadow was princess mary,
listened to the rhetor in silence, feeling from all he said that his
listening to an old russian general with decorations, who stood very
listening to bilíbin he was already imagining how on reaching the army
listening to the gypsies and other singers.
“listen!” said he; “don’t worry about your wife: what can be
listen to his tale.
“listen to me, prince,” said she. “i have never yet asked you
listen, while waiting till it would be time to leave. her task was
lit room adjoining the count’s reception room. it was one of those
little as nicholas had occupied himself with sónya of late, something
little bent, looked with beaming face at the princess without
little companion! i hope she will bring her along with her when we’re
little creature, but dared not do so. he stood over him, gazing at his
little effort.”
little fingers. “all right! then it’s settled?”
little frenchy, successful only because there were no longer any
little gold icon princess mary had hung round her brother’s neck, but
little icon with its thin gold chain suddenly appeared upon his chest
little, i mean a good deal, a great deal—forty three thousand.”
little matters which could not interest anyone but themselves. natásha
little napoleon had suddenly appeared with his unsympathizing look of
little natásha as grown up.
little princess.
little princess, and having asked for a needle began tracing the condé
little princess, shrugging her shoulders.
little princess walked twice round her, now adjusting a fold of the
little table, and anna mikháylovna noticed that something was agitating
little towns there’s nowhere to spend it,” said he. “well, let me
little túshin, moving feebly and awkwardly, kept telling his orderly to
little waves of the enns, which rippling and eddying round the piles of
little while, felt as if they too were becoming, like her, full of life
lit wisps of straw and ran after him, shouting, “vive l’empereur!”
lived for glory.—and after all what is glory? the same love of others,
lived for others, and not almost, but quite, ruined my life. and i have
lively disposition, bent over her frame to hide a smile probably evoked
lively little girl’s look made him inclined to laugh without knowing
livery, get up behind the carriage, and come with me while i make some
living with his mother, who, if she saw him dying, would not survive it.
living without having solved the problems that so absorbed him. he had
living with the rostóvs.
loading.
locality and surroundings—fruit gardens, stone fences, tiled roofs,
locality was known and shown in every detail on the maps, and bonaparte,
locks of gray hair.
lodge—were so strong that he could not resist them. again whole days,
lodge. willarski coughed, he was answered by the masonic knock with
loftiness of soul. she has refused to evacuate malta. she wanted to
lofty, beautiful feeling, such a...”
lofty sky before? and how happy i am to have found it at last! yes! all
london—could pronounce pitt’s sentence, he saw a well-built and
loneliness of his daughter amid the general conversation. “got herself
long.
“long ago,” answered rostóv, “i have already been for the hay,
long and warmly to the emperor and how the emperor, evidently weeping,
longed. sónya now was sixteen and she was very pretty, especially at
longed to kiss his father’s hands and kneel to beg his forgiveness,
longed to snatch up, to squeeze, to hold to his heart, this helpless
longer and went on, between gasps of laughter: “and the whole world
longer to hinder them but because the guns were trained and there was
longest sentences, he stopped the rotary motion of the snuffbox, raised
long. say ‘perhaps.’”
look at me,” cried denísov who, unable to keep still on one spot,
“look at papa!” shouted natásha to the whole company, and quite
“look at papa!” though as it was they never took their eyes off the
“look at them scurrying! it’s burning! just see the smoke! fine!
looked as clean and well washed as the tips of one’s fingers after a
looked as if by that slight motion the army itself was expressing its
looked at telyánin. the lieutenant was looking about in his usual way
looked at that aged, stern, motionless, almost lifeless face and moved
looked eagerly toward his eyes, waiting for the look for which she
looked like tradespeople, ran hurriedly from the entrance and hid in the
looked straight at his adjutant’s face without recognizing him.
looked very thoughtful and tender. with his hands behind him he paced
look for her.
looking about him uneasily, and an awkward pause followed.
looking and held out his hand to her. she pressed it.
looking at her and waiting. nicholas saw that denísov was refusing
looking at her own handsome face she seemed to become still colder and
looking at his watch.
looking at natásha.
looking at pierre. “at the present time it is difficult to know the
looking at rostóv, “you’ll win it back all the sooner. i lose to
looking at the ground, he came on some sticky, trodden mud, stumbled,
looking at the midwife with wide-open eyes of alarm.
looking at them, turned to an adjutant to ask him for a field glass.
looking at the puff from the gun that had sent the ball. his eyes
looking at those driving past as if he pitied all who were not at that
looking back saw that their foremost ranks were mixed up with some
looking down at the waters of the enns under the bridge, nesvítski
looking inquiringly at him and watching to see how he would behave
looking like something between a cart, a cabriolet, and a calèche.
looking not at pierre but straight before him, and turning the leaves
looking pretty and conscious of it, were standing by the clavichord,
looking round at the sound.
looking with a scared face at his comrade for help. the door, having let
looking with dismay at her husband.
looking with tender affection and pity at mademoiselle bourienne’s
“look, look!” said this adjutant, looking not at the troops in the
“look! look there!” one soldier was saying to another, pointing to a
look. nicholas went up to her and kissed her hand. this was the first
look or bad opinion from him,” rostóv decided; and sorrowfully and
“look, prince,” said another, who would have dearly liked to take
looks and manner gave that impression. the princess felt this, and as if
looks) and she had put on a maroon dress with a pale-blue scarf, the
“look sharp! look sharp!” several voices repeated around him.
“look then at thy inner self with the eyes of the spirit, and ask
look which was fixed on him, but him she could not see, she only saw
lorrain considered.
lorrain, pursing up his lips, waved a severely negative finger before
lorrain’s instructions. the german doctor went up to lorrain.
losing confidence in its allies, suffering from shortness of supplies,
losses. the general whose regiment had been inspected at braunau was
lost....” and prince hippolyte began to tell his story in such russian
lost count of his children, but this pierre was his favorite.”
lost. dólokhov “killed,” that is, beat, ten cards of rostóv’s
lost more than he could pay.
lot? and who would marry marie for love? plain and awkward! they’ll
loudly, handing kutúzov an envelope.
loud that those in the drawing room heard her and were startled. “why
“louis xvi was executed because they said he was dishonorable and a
love again, though for no one have i such a feeling of friendship,
love and befriend him.”
loved more than himself. he kept telling himself that he would consider
love for natásha was unpleasant to him and he had not once been to see
love her.
love her, for that would be impossible.
love him all the more, but nicholas now considered himself unworthy of
love, love of one’s neighbor, love of one’s enemy, is worthier,
lovely eyes there was a look of fearful joy and hope that was also new
love of death. he consoled himself with the thought that he fulfilled
lovers!” he added.
lovers of music do when they hear a false note. the two women let go
love, such rapture, and such self-sacrifice, what do any of our quarrels
love, though less ecstatically, with their tsar and the glory of the
love you.”
love you, and i think i love you more than anyone else....”
loving and honoring him. “why, i have not yet had time to settle
loving her; in deceiving yourself and her.” and he vividly recalled
lower one, and something like two distinct smiles played continually
low tones.
luck! such ill luck. as soon as you left, it began and went on. hullo
luck the man has!”
lucky man and, with his plain face, to be looked on as a sort of paris
luggage. franz, bilíbin’s man, was dragging a portmanteau with some
l’u! * i shall certainly adopt an innovation and call him simply
luminous eyes fixed on her nurse’s wrinkled face (every line of which
luminous eyes shone more brightly than usual from the tears of joy that
luxurious study and sat down to the dinner prepared for him. bilíbin
lying on the ground; they also met a crowd of soldiers some of whom were
ma chère! on behalf of the whole family i beg you to come, mon cher!”
“ma chère, there is a time for everything,” said the countess with
machine, an impulse once given leads to the final result; and just as
machine or set it in proper motion, so anna pávlovna moved about her
mack. an austrian general complained of me. i congratulated him on
mack, have by now already gained a decisive victory and no longer need
mack’s arrival... what’s the matter, rostóv? you look as if you’d
“madame de genlis! madame de genlis!” shouted laughing voices
madame de souza. he began reading about the sufferings and virtuous
“madame, i doubt my ability before such an audience,” said he,
made a grimace, as if expecting something unpleasant.
made and highly valued. the old count came up to them and pressed
made a tour of the regiments and was annoyed at the irregularity of
made elegantly witty. in society he always awaited an opportunity to say
made for the sacrament of unction, and in his house there was the bustle
madeira”... “hungarian”... or “rhine wine” as the case might
“made, made me an offer, mamma! mamma!” she exclaimed.
mademoiselle bourienne.
mademoiselle bourienne, also roused to great excitement by anatole’s
mademoiselle bourienne and the little princess had to own to themselves
mademoiselle bourienne, how i shall arrange it,” she added, smiling
mademoiselle bourienne in her arms and gently stroking her hair. the
mademoiselle bourienne, “mary’s is a face which such a coiffure does
mademoiselle bourienne walked up and down the conservatory for a long
mademoiselle bourienne was also looking at princess mary, and in her
made. prince andrew several times prompted pierre’s story of what he
made use of it.... “what have i done?” thought he. and he turned
“made what?”
“ma foi!” said he, “tomorrow we shall see all that on the
“ma foi, sire, nous ferons ce qui sera dans notre possibilité,
magnanimous. she felt convinced of that. thousands of dreams of a future
maid.
maid of honor’s hand to his lips, kissed it, and swung it to and fro
maid’s voice at the door.
maid with the decanter in her haste had not closed the door (everything
mainly because denísov so delighted in her singing. she no longer sang
“mais, mon cher, i did this for my own sake, to satisfy my conscience,
majestically entered the room. he was wearing his long coat with three
majestic figure of his father, count bezúkhov, with that gray mane of
majesty.”
majesty,” said an adjutant who had come from the batteries that were
majesty’s and you were pitied....”
majesty, “who, thank god, was better today.” and each visitor,
make a career and must not miss opportunities, but must avail myself of
make a remark, for the conversation interested him, but anna pávlovna,
make as successful a career of it as possible.”
make him go on.
make something exceptional of them,” said the visitor.
makes things trying for you, doesn’t it?” prince andrew asked
make them look at the wag.
“malbrook s’en va-t-en guerre. dieu sait quand reviendra.” *
malevolent and caustic expression softened, as if admitting that what
mallets and swords. as he was being led up to some object he noticed a
mallets, the doors opened before them. a bass voice (pierre was still
malodorous mouth. tears actually moistened his cheeks.
mamma.”
“mamma, are you cross? don’t be cross, dear! is it my fault?”
mamma has sent for me to go and dine at the apráksins’. read the
“mamma!... mamma!... he has made me...”
“mamma!” rang out the clear contralto notes of her childish voice,
“mamma told me to ask you to join the dancers.”
“mamma! what sweets are we going to have?” and natásha’s voice
“mamma! what sweets are we going to have?” natásha again cried
man.
man.” again he pressed the hand of the latter with an expression of
managed to utter (to her everything seemed funny). she leaned against
man and help him to worldly success. under cover of obtaining help
man, and that in the duel with bezúkhov, pierre was right and dólokhov
man, be for her? in her thoughts of marriage princess mary dreamed of
man be fully imbued with the thought that we must defeat these hirelings
man beside you?”
man; by his acquaintances as a handsome lieutenant of hussars, a good
man. either this look meant nothing but that as long as one has eyes
mane—which, though he saw other faces as well, he had not lost sight
man, had not the five rubles that would make him happy.
man.... here he is, and the count has not once asked for him.”
man is as surly as a dog.”
man is the count’s son,” she added more softly. “what a terrible
manly-looking, but what amazed and estranged pierre till he got used
manly voice interrupting them both. “of course you artillery men are
manner he wore in drawing rooms, but with the animated face with which
manner nor a desire to enter into conversation, but speaking so quietly
manners, who evidently considered himself a celebrity but out of
manner: they were all evidently firmly convinced of pierre’s noble
man, of medium height, with firm, clearcut features. everything about
man? on such matters i am only severe with myself. i understand such
man, our dear vyazmítinov....”
man’s hand and moving her lips as if to send it a kiss. pierre,
man’s high, stout, uncovered chest and powerful shoulders, raised by
man’s penetration he understood all that was passing in bolkónski’s
man’s simple-minded eagerness, was explaining his pet theory. both
man. the revolution was a grand thing!” continued monsieur pierre,
manure on well-kept plowland, lay from ten to fifteen dead and wounded
man who has at length begun to attain a long-desired happiness. as soon
man with a diamond ring on his forefinger, who was fond of speaking
man, with gray bushy eyebrows overhanging bright eyes of an indefinite
man with the white forehead, black eyebrows, and red lips.
many of them), and at last he saw how a whole detachment of french
many wrinkles on his large features, to rostóv who was crimson with
many young men to his parents’ house. véra was a handsome girl
marched gaily, as they always do when going into action, especially to
marching along both.
marching thirty miles that stormy night across roadless hills, with his
marching with particular grace and boldness in time to the song and
mare he rode, his hand in a white glove gathered up the reins, and he
maria theresa order of the third grade, which the emperor was conferring
“marie” produced on the visitors. and she saw mademoiselle
marked the change? i sat all the time in this same place at this table,
market place, where there had been some rather heavy firing before the
markóv immediately dropped his own beside it and picked it up without
     * “marlborough is going to the wars; god knows when he’ll
marriageable daughters, and of the young ladies themselves, toward
“marriages are made in heaven,” replied the elderly lady.
marriage—when the marriageable daughters and their mothers had nothing
married,” answered the countess sharply and sarcastically.
married, la petite est gentille.” *
marry anyone, but will be a dancer. only don’t tell anyone.”
marry!” concluded prince andrew.
marshal of the court, count tolstóy.
martyr’s death for his sake. then robespierre was beheaded for being
mary
mary.
mary.
márya dmítrievna.
márya dmítrievna and the countess burst out laughing, and all the
“márya dmítrievna?” came her voice from there.
márya dmítrievna, curved his arms, beat time, straightened his
márya dmítrievna on her right and anna mikháylovna on her left, the
“márya dmítrievna! what kind of ice pudding? i don’t like ice
“márya lvóvna karágina and her daughter!” announced the
mary, and the little princess. prince andrew had been called to his
“mary bogdánovna, i think it’s beginning!” said princess mary
mary bolkónskaya.”
mary, but did not at once take his arm from the waist of mademoiselle
mary did not frighten them (she never inspired fear in anyone), but they
mary entered the antechamber as usual at the time appointed for the
mary, having taken and closed the exercise book with the next day’s
mary. how good it would be to know where to seek for help in this life,
mary, i am going to love him very much,” said lise, looking with
mary, really this dress does not suit you. i prefer you in your little
mary! say...” and the little princess began to cry capriciously like
“mary,” she said, moving away from the embroidery frame and lying
mary spent most of the day in the nursery, taking a mother’s place to
mary’s room.
mason.
masonic statutes, “be kindly and courteous,” recurred to him. he
masses.
masses of russian troops. at the bend of the danube, vessels, an island,
mass. looking down over the rails prince nesvítski saw the rapid, noisy
master, “but those between virtue and vice. beware of making any
master’s thoughts. he guessed that the question referred to prince
master, would touch and delude him.
match in russia, had sunk greatly in the esteem of society after his
matchmaking chronicles of moscow now speak of me as the future countess
mathematics from her father, and when the old prince was at home went
matter might be he did not care, but it gave him great pleasure to
matter of indifference whether he remained there for a few hours or for
matters, social interests and the fair sex occupied no small part of his
matters very satisfactorily. borís, during the campaign, had made the
matters yourself!’ yes... that was the answer i got!”
“matvévna’s” carriage. at the foot of the hill, a pale hussar
“matvévna,” the gun from which they had removed the dead officer.
may christ be with you in your great endeavor!”
may i shall do my duty. i will come and spend the night. he must not be
may laugh as much as you like, but all the same bonaparte is a great
may not have seen, but i have seen, how good men brought up in those
may perhaps have a stronger effect on the sincere seeker after wisdom
“may the devil take them—the traitors!”
mazuwka is this? but she does dance splendidly.”
me!”
me.”
me.”
me?”
meadow.”
mean good french society—will have been forever destroyed, and
meaning for anyone else, but gave him some of the best joys of his life;
meaning for him, that he paid no attention to it. the aunt was just
means. then you say, ‘lighten his toil.’ but as i see it, physical
me,” answered a voice struggling with tears.
meant by the words all is over, “and the count’s papers are opened,
meant for him not only the loss of sixteen hundred rubles, but the
mean to fight, let’s fight. but the devil knows what this is.”
meant to double the three thousand just put down to his score, when
meanwhile kutúzov sent his adjutants back to hasten to the utmost the
meanwhile nesvítski, zherkóv, and the officer of the suite were
meanwhile, pétya, having found and seized the sabers in the outer room,
meanwhile prince vasíli had opened the door into the princess’ room.
meanwhile the staff officer standing in front pointed out something to
meanwhile the younger generation: borís, the officer, anna
me apologize, because if he, as commander of this regiment, thinks it
measures—the removal of injunctions, petitions, permits, and so
me; but, my dear, i am getting on for sixty and must be prepared for
me, but that he’ll marry julie. you see how he’s been with her all
medal he can get his reward just as well in the rearguard, but if he
meditatively and rapidly:
meeting arrives. not daring to look round and without looking round, he
meeting, they had kissed each other, but today they felt it could not
me. ‘everyone fears a bear,’ he says, ‘but when you see one your
me!” he began to laugh. “well, what of it! i hope we’ll get better
me. i am used to suffering.”
me i lied, and i told him he lied. and there it rests. he may keep me
me in choosing me for your second, if at this grave, this very
me in the eyes of society, and even of the court,” he added, lowering
me in war the energy of young men often shows the way better than all
me, just because i have exerted myself on his behalf, befriended him,
melancholy was just like the august melancholy she showed at the mention
member of the hofkriegsrath mildly and attentively.
members and guests jostling one another and trying to get a good look
members of the council of war. they were drinking tea, and only awaited
memory, and he told everybody that his son had been killed. he tried not
memory, his extensive reading (he had read everything, knew everything,
memory, i will do the impossible—your son shall be transferred to the
me... myself most of all. then i don’t eat, don’t wash... and how is
men and provisions have not arrived. gallop off to him at once and
men disfigured by fear of death now crowded together, crushing one
men of the same kind hiding in the shadow of the house on both sides.
men, seemed so immeasurably above him, an insignificant officer of the
men’s end the voices sounded louder and louder, especially that of the
men should be in their greatcoats and in marching order, and that the
men should continue to march at ease, and he and all his suite showed
men’s will.
men take their first steps on life’s road, each saw immense changes in
mental activity is to you or me. you can’t help thinking. i go to bed
mental image of his future activity in this direction rose in his mind.
men—the minister of foreign affairs, prince adam czartorýski.... it
mention, and which you think is the result of your own mental efforts,
mentioned during the journey.
mentioned their age. “if you marry it will be a different thing,”
mention her!” he exclaimed fiercely.
men uselessly, and so had hastened to throw some sharpshooters into the
men was to attack the french from different sides. the old prince did
men was training a trotter of his own for a race. he knew a lady on one
men, who here, as in vienna, formed a special set which bilíbin, their
men with broad, self-confident faces, fat fingers, and resolute gestures
me of her own accord in the evening and tell me everything. perhaps i
me only the day before yesterday not to forget borís. but he had
me, pierre. i shall not forget your interests.”
me!” rostóv whispered.
merrily.
merrily and prettily as ever.
merrily to everyone at once, sat down and gaily arranged herself in her
merry.
merry reminiscences.
message to kutúzov, perhaps even to the sovereign himself. the morning
metallic roar, and a whistling grenade flew above the heads of our
me! that’s the sort of man he is, and nothing more,” replied
met him at the first door and, expressing their delight at seeing such a
methods that he had better leave genoa alone?” retorted prince andrew
me to burn the bridge! i know the service, and it is my habit orders
me to inform you... but, don’t be uneasy,” he added, noticing that
met, she fell on his breast, sobbing. she could not lift her face, but
me! what will become of us? i am the wife of the doctor of the seventh
me—yet dreadful and unnatural as it seems, i would give them all at
michael ivánovich are the two people to whom he is always gentle and
“michael ivánovich!” cried the old prince to the architect who,
michael ivánovich did not at all know when “you and i” had said
middle, a cry was heard, then princess mary’s heavy tread and the
middle of his mouth and with red lips gently inhaled the smoke, letting
middle of the drawing room on the first chair he had come across,
middle of the muddy road.
midnight. prince andrew went out.
midwife.
might, and a passionate attraction to him who was the cause of this
might be up to on the sly” (she meant that they would be kissing),
might deprive him of all this happiness, newly appreciated and newly
might easily succeed to the post; how popular he was with everyone in
might, feeling that he would like to injure himself by that shout, if
might have been more decisive had the commander in chief not been so
might outweigh all the courage of the russian troops, and at the same
might retreat and leave the pickets.”
might toward the bushes. he did not now run with the feeling of doubt
mikháylovna.
mikháylovna and snatching the portfolio from her.
mikháylovna as she entered, and at the big stout figure of pierre who,
mikháylovna drubetskáya. rostóv, the father, is ilyá, and his son is
mikháylovna entered the hall. though she came upon the count in his
mikháylovna enthusiastically, quite forgetting all the humiliation she
mikháylovna evinced no surprise, she only smiled faintly and sighed, as
mikháylovna in passing instinctively glanced into the room, where
mikháylovna looked attentively at the sick man’s eyes, trying to
mikháylovna made a hurried sign with her eyes, glancing at the sick
mikháylovna of one of them.
mikháylovna, or you will not hold out.”
mikháylovna pass and did not evince the least surprise at seeing them
mikháylovna returned to the rostóvs’ and went to bed. on waking in
mikháylovna?” said he. “let us wait until evening. the doctors are
mikháylovna,” said prince vasíli, arranging his lace frill, and in
mikháylovna’s son; nicholas, the undergraduate, the count’s eldest
mikháylovna’s voice alone in a long speech, then a cry, then silence,
mikháylovna. though the latter held on tenaciously, her voice lost none
mikháylovna, whom she had not seen properly since she returned from
mikhelson’s army i understand—tolstóy ‘s too... a simultaneous
milan?” asked anna pávlovna, “and of the comedy of the people of
mile and a half away, but had suddenly and unexpectedly appeared just in
miles, and reining in his horse he sighed restfully and looked round
miles away from the french. at grunth also some apprehension and alarm
military code, which he and the others knew in the regiment, there was
military men, bore that expression of condescending respect for their
milk-white sea. nothing was visible in the valley to the left into which
millions in hand might smile at a poor fellow who told him that he, poor
millions of human beings who grew up in the same way. as twenty
milorádovich wheeled his horse sharply and stationed himself a little
“mind, annette, i hope you have not played a wicked trick on me,”
mind at rest,” said he without altering his tone, beneath the
mind easy,” said he in abrupt sentences while sealing his letter.
mind. “if a tenth part of his detachment returns i shall thank god,”
“mind, no holding on!” cried another.
mind once for all that what he saw happening around him that evening was
mind to ask him a question about the roads, the traveler had closed his
“mind, walk him up and down well!”
mined?”
mined and doubly mined and that there are menacing fortifications at its
mine. i have written to my poor mother,” said the smiling mademoiselle
miniature portrait of her son on the lid of a snuffbox, while the tears
ministers and great people, and know how to deal with them all! it’s
minister’s bent bald head with its gray temples. he went on reading
minister’s son was, with his rosy cheeks and dark eyebrows, and with
minute later with another committeeman, carrying a large silver salver
minutes before the troops had passed the emperors. not only would it
minutes later the eldest sister came out with a pale hard face, again
minutest details himself. princess mary had ceased taking lessons in
mirror her eyes full of tears and her mouth quivering, ready to burst
mischief-makers don’t meddle even a german beats buonaparte. he is
miserable man who stood before him, but the task he had begun had to be
misery. a man offended you and you shot him, and you say you do not
misery. that could not be, yet he awaited with a sinking heart the
misfortune? and when did it begin? such a little while ago i came to
misleading you.”
missed him. his one desire was to know what was happening and at any
“missed!” shouted dólokhov, and he lay helplessly, face downwards
mist!”
mistake and that anatole meant to flirt with mademoiselle bourienne,
mistake. marry when you are old and good for nothing—or all that is
mistaken,” said the stranger in a deliberate and loud voice.
mist and taking it for a tree can again take it for a tree after he has
misunderstanding. i expect you feel it so yourself. let us write her
misunderstandings and did not now feel she had a right to ask him for
mixture onto the floor and asked for some more water. the maid brought
modeling and modeling you must get smeared with clay,” suggesting
modern science of strategics, had been handed to kutúzov when he was in
moment!”
moment.”
moment consider what she should do), but all this had long been familiar
moment had arrived. with the air of a practical petersburg lady she now,
moment he was clearly thinking of nothing but how dashing a fellow he
moment imagined himself to be napoleon in person and to have just
moment marching with the company. the hussar cornet of kutúzov’s
moment of meeting had been so beatific that his present joy seemed
moment, sat beside him: the rest, crowding round him, watched every
moments: but his words sounded so weak that he felt ashamed of himself.
moment the french who were attacking, suddenly and without any apparent
moment those hands with their short reddish fingers and hairy wrists,
moment when the first report was heard a fourth was seen. then two
“mon dieu! mon dieu! oh!” she heard as she left the room.
“mon dieu, mon dieu!” she muttered, and lifting her dress with one
monk he received and had a long talk with.”
monsieur buonaparte sitting on a throne and granting the petitions of
monument from moscow which he intended to erect in his own garden to his
more.
more and holding out the letter.
more and more animated and evidently wishing to express his new outlook
more animated. “and believe me, they are reaping the reward of their
more animated. only when a man was killed or wounded did he frown and
moreau would have been a prisoner if suvórov had had a free hand; but
more, but he waited and did nothing.
more cheerful in his presence, and were evidently anxious to display
more confident was the appearance of our troops. the soldiers in
more confirmed the farther he rode into the region behind the village of
more confused, blushed like a child till tears came to his eyes, began
more cunning or subtle diplomatist—you know, a combination of french
more, for immediately afterwards cannon began firing from somewhere and
more honorable to admit one’s mistake than to let matters become
more important guests—an old general and his wife, and anna pávlovna
more important nearer to the honored guest, as naturally as water flows
more natural and animated than usual, so that the wrinkles round
more noticeable how much plainer she had become. some unobtrusive touch
more outcries, and tears of joy. he could not distinguish which was
more! some more!” a merry voice was saying in his soul. but no more
more than anyone else, prince vasíli took possession of pierre’s
more than they did anatole. dólokhov could play all games and nearly
more than timókhin had done when he was reprimanded by the regimental
more to do with you and you are no longer my friend, no longer my
morning.
morning greeting, crossing herself with trepidation and repeating a
morning or evening than night. on the way pierre remembered that anatole
morning, the lines were so near together that the men could see one
morning till night and abstemious, so of course i am well.”
morsels. the group about mortemart immediately began discussing the
mortification, our opinion of bonaparte cannot alter. we shall not cease
moscovites who took their opinions from others—ilyá rostóv among
moscow!”
moscow after the death of count bezúkhov, he would call pierre, or
moscow. as a result he could not go to the country with the rest of the
moscow for his equipment, was to join them on the march to radzivílov.
“moscow has nothing else to do but gossip,” borís went on.
moscow’s hero was the fact that he had no connections in the city
moscow their house was always full of visitors. the night after the
moscow. the remembrance of the rostóvs’ house and of his childish
moscow when borís was a boy of fourteen, and had quite forgotten him,
moscow who was expected every moment, and men on horseback with lanterns
most in people. as to his inheritance and the part played by prince
most joyful though erroneous rumors were rife of the imaginary approach
most of her observations, it made everyone feel uncomfortable, not
most of the guests, uncertain how to regard this sally, looked at the
most part to be spoken at a moment of victory and triumph, generally
most strongly expressed his insincere love for her, and he felt the
mother!...”
mother and the youngest daughter—both named nataly. ever since
mother by the news of this loss, he knew what a relief it would be to
mother, drawing her hand from beneath her old mantle and laying
mother keep you in their holy and all-powerful care!
mother, pushing away her daughter with pretended sternness, and turning
mothers used to be married at twelve or thirteen.”
motionless masses of the french now swayed and that there really was
motive of his visit, “is it true that the dowager empress wants
mountains, defending himself against superior forces of the enemy and
mountains of bohemia, and you and your army would have spent a bad
mount and ride to the bridge. (observe that all three are gascons.)
mounted frenchmen, probably adjutants, were galloping up the hill. a
mounting his horse again prince andrew lingered with the battery,
mouth all seemed puckered into a vacant, wearied grimace, and his arms
mouth. another was walking sturdily by himself but without his musket,
mouth full of false teeth, as if she were trying to cheat old age....
mouth!” said bilíbin, and the mop of hair on his head moved with
moved and halted at the officers’ command, turned with banners flying,
moved his forces to attack the center and outflank both the russian
moved off accompanied by an irregularly swaying sea of aides-de-camp.
movement of dólokhov’s hands. those broad, reddish hands, with hairy
movement of soldiers forming ranks and getting their muskets ready,
movement of the tsar’s seemed to him enchanting.
movements of the austrian army, and then give it to his excellency.”
movements of the baggage trains of the entire army along the krems-znaim
movements of the bearers, and the cold listless gaze fixed itself upon
movements of the mass of which in his regiment he felt himself a tiny,
movements were still slow and measured.
movement, word, or look of his, never taking their blissfully adoring
move on a few steps and be killed themselves in the same way.
“move on a hundred yards and we are certainly saved, remain here
move on. the horses moved off the bank. the ice, that had held under
moving a chair close to hers seated himself beside her.
moving the money forward he prepared to deal. rostóv sat down by his
moving toward our left flank, the higher command found that our center
“mr. aide-de-camp! help me!... what does it all mean?” screamed the
“mr. aide-de-camp! mr. aide-de-camp!... for heaven’s sake... protect
much, and all of you, only véra... and what for? what have i done
much as a sailor is by his ship. however far he has walked, whatever
“much as mamma pressed her, she refused, and i know she won’t change
much at the captain as at those who were laughing, among whom zherkóv
much because he heard their sound as because he saw uneasiness on
much interest him because at that moment he felt with delight that he
much, my dear sir.”
much of it left.”
much prettier. pierre was received as if he were a corpse or a leper.
much that the count held him up as a pattern to the other guests. berg
much to say to one another in private and so they had been seeking an
mud-bespattered breeches. the german landlady, hearing rostóv’s loud
murat. bonaparte himself, not trusting to his generals, moved with all
murat’s detachment and the battle had not yet begun. in bagratión’s
murat’s emissary and retired, leaving bagratión’s division
murder of the duc d’enghien. the vicomte said that the duc d’enghien
music. amid these sounds, only the youthful kindly voice of the emperor
muskets of the nearest soldiers. the soldiers started firing without
mustache. “i want to know what you men are like. are you the same as
must be broken off ... and then you know, andré...” (she looked
must excuse me,” said he, putting pierre at ease instead of being put
must gain his confidence and friendship and through him obtain a special
must have an explanation...”
must have pity on a young man in misfortune. you know he has important
“must one die like a dog?” said he.
must put in an appearance there,” said the prince. “my daughter is
must remain hidden from thee, but live so that thou mayest be ready for
muttered something and colored.
my advance guard, and have no right to arrange an armistice without my
“my cousin has nothing to do with this and it’s not necessary to
“my darling!” he said—a word he had never used to her before.
“my dear anna mikháylovna,” said he with his usual familiarity and
“my dear benefactor! this is what i expected from you—i knew your
“my dear borís,” said princess anna mikháylovna to her son as
my dear boy, are you serving in the horse guards?” asked the old man,
“my dear count, you were one of my best pupils—you must dance,”
“my dear!” exclaimed his mother imploringly, again laying her hand
“my dear fellow, how are you?” said he through the singing, making
“my dear fellow,” nesvítski whispered to prince andrew, “the old
“my dear fellow, what have you been up to in moscow? why have you
“my dear fellow, you are a hero!” said bilíbin.
“my dear friend?” said she, in a tone of pathetic inquiry, prepared
“my dear,” he heard what seemed to him her despairing whisper behind
“my dear, i must tell you that this is a moment i shall never, never
“my dear princess catherine semënovna,” began prince vasíli
“my dear, really... it’s better not to wake him... he’s asleep,”
“my dear,” said princess mary, addressing her brother from beside
“my dear,” she said to her son, once more stimulating him by a
my dear sir,” he added, seeing that his servant had entered... “and
my dear, whether the will and letter were written, and whether they have
“my desire is never to leave you, father, never to separate my
my empty portmanteau and my dressing gown. the emperor proposes to give
my father has not spoken to me of a suitor, but has only told me that he
my friend... i only need see prince vasíli sergéevich: he is staying
“my friend,” said anna mikháylovna in gentle tones, addressing
my geometry lessons,” said princess mary gleefully, as if her lessons
“my god, how happy i should be if he ordered me to leap into the fire
“my god, i’m a ruined and dishonored man! a bullet through my brain
“my god! what does it all mean?” thought he. “and here, where at
my men in the wood. i beg of you, i beg of you,” he repeated, “to
“my mother! my mother, my angel, my adored angel mother,” and
“my part is played out,” said prince andrew. “what’s the use of
“my passion! i have had so many,” replied pierre.
my relations with him, transient as they were, have been one of the
my respects to monsieur your father and my compliments to mademoiselle
my riding and commanding so vast an army, so i have passed on the
myself and ruined my life. and only now when i am living, or at least
myself and you with the hope that your son is alive, for otherwise
myself not long ago, in moscow and when traveling, but at such times i
mysteriously. “yes, tomorrow, tomorrow!” he thought. “tomorrow
mystery is of such a nature that nobody can know or use it unless he be
mystery on which perhaps the fate of mankind depends. but since this
mystical book i am sending you; it has an enormous success here. though
my stupidity.”
“my vocation is a different one,” thought princess mary. “my
my wife—are the count’s only direct heirs. i know, i know how hard
“my wife,” continued prince andrew, “is an excellent woman, one
naked shoulders. she did not give him the money, but let herself be
name.
name-day party.
namesake, the new count bezúkhov) “and now she’s in love with that
name to rectify this omission, prince andrew galloped back. kutúzov
napkin, from behind the next man’s shoulders and whispered: “dry
napoleon
napoleon
napoleon happened to fall into one of the fainting fits to which he was
napoleon. “if he weren’t afraid of a battle why did he ask for that
napoleon’s army of one hundred and fifty thousand men would cut him
napoleon’s eyes prince andrew thought of the insignificance of
napoleon’s proclamation was as follows:
napoleon’s words. “‘i opened my antechambers and they crowded
napoleon who said it. he heard the speaker addressed as sire. but he
napoleon with even greater warmth than the year before. orders were
narrowed disdainfully, he entered the room of the minister of war with
narýshkin, uvárov, dolgorúkov, apráksin, valúev, to the committee,
“natálya ilyníchna behaves very well to me,” remarked borís. “i
“nataly,” he said, moving with rapid steps toward her, “decide my
natásha, after she had pulled him down toward her and covered his face
natásha, and sónya, and will certainly never touch a card again.” at
natásha blushed and laughed.
natásha. but he was not as much at ease with sónya and dólokhov as
natásha came in and walking straight up to pierre said, laughing and
natásha considered.
natásha could not remain calm, seeing him in such a plight. she began
natásha did not like the visitor’s tone of condescension to childish
natásha fell in love the very moment she entered the ballroom. she
natásha flared up. “i don’t want to marry anyone. and i’ll tell
“natásha,” he said, “you know that i love you, but....”
natásha kept pulling everyone by sleeve or dress, urging them to
natásha kissed her on the hair.
natásha looked at sónya with wondering and inquisitive eyes, and said
natásha. nicholas understood that something must have happened between
natásha no less proud of her first long dress and of being at a real
natásha only desisted when she had been told that there would be
natásha, raising her face for a moment from her mother’s mantilla,
natásha saw there was nothing to be afraid of and so she braved even
natásha, seeing the impression the news of her brother’s wound
natásha’s intermediacy, to remind him of his promise, and then
natásha’s large mouth widened, making her look quite ugly, and she
natásha smiled through her tears.
natásha’s prediction proved true. dólokhov, who did not usually care
natásha’s previous remark. “it’s because she was in love with
natásha, stopping suddenly. “i feel so happy!”
natásha suddenly flushed.
natásha, that winter, had for the first time begun to sing seriously,
natásha took the first note, her throat swelled, her chest rose,
natásha to sing.
natásha, who was exceptionally graceful, was first, even danced the pas
natural to him was very gentle and wary with them both at dinner. on
near by the news spread that the emperor was unwell. he ate nothing and
nearer, faster and louder, louder and faster, a cannon ball, as if it
nearer. then the clang of hoofs, as of several horses galloping,
nearest him were not to blame for they were themselves pressed still
near everything grew brighter, more joyful, more significant, and more
near him and only wished that they would help him and bring him back to
near him pricked their ears at these shouts. over there, where the
nearly cut our left flank in half were for the moment repulsed. our
near sixty, dear friend... i too... all will end in death, all! death is
near the altar of the church at bald hills there was a chapel over the
near the gun waved their arms and beat the horses to make them turn and
near the strange lady. prince vasíli in front of the door, near the
necessary for the position. then there’s this house, which must be
necessary. halfway up the stairs they were almost knocked over by
necessary,” said the younger of the two speakers, evidently in the
necessary to enable it to retreat without losing its heavy equipment.
necessary to go on insisting day after day and hour after hour, and even
necessary to take some part in it.
necessity of going back on his word. with a sinking heart he watched
neck and the corners of her mouth drooped.
neck instead.
neck. it seemed to rostóv that bogdánich was only pretending not
neck. on his right sat the italian abbé whom pierre had met at
needed.
needed for success in the service was not effort or work, or courage, or
need, even the inevitability, of entering into conversation with this
need some money.”
need to hurry. however, he put his horse to a trot in the direction
negotiations and to offer the russian army the three days’ truce.
neighbor, and may envy never dim the purity of that bliss. forgive thy
neighboring town, who had been at bald hills for the last fortnight.)
neighboring wheel is as quiet and motionless as though it were prepared
neighbor? no! you have spent your life in idleness. then you married, my
neighbor on his right quickly turned in alarm to bezúkhov.
neither i nor my mother would ever ask or take anything from him.”
neither moving forward to protect the battery nor backward with the
neither of her gown and coiffure nor of how she would go in nor of what
neither of them could think of her as a rival, so they began dressing
neither quickly nor slowly. at this natásha dashed swiftly among the
nesvítski.
nesvítski and zherkóv were so surprised by this outburst that they
nesvítski closed their eyes. at the same instant they heard a report
nesvítski. count ilyá rostóv with the other members of the committee
nesvítski looked round and saw, some fifteen paces away but separated
“nesvítski, nesvítski! you numskull!” came a hoarse voice from
nesvítski rose, puffing, and went up to the general, smiling.
nesvítski’s and dólokhov’s sabers, which were stuck into the
nesvítski stopped him and took him home.
nesvítski. “they’ve made up splendid packs for me—fit to cross
nesvítski tried to move on, soldiers and carts pushed him back again
nesvítski was there as an old member of the club. pierre, who at his
nesvítski with a laugh threw his arms round prince andrew, but
neutral... i know that. what about austria?” said he, rising from his
neutrality is just a trap. i have faith only in god and the lofty
never bear malice or enmity toward thy brother. be kindly and courteous.
never favorably disposed toward him—would have used it to turn the
never had love been so much in the air, and never had the amorous
“never, never marry, my dear fellow! that’s my advice: never marry
never says anything stupid. she says little, but what she does say is
never take it off. do you promise?”
never thought much of him.”
never to dare to change your way of dress without my consent.”
never understand it, because you’ve never loved anyone. you have no
new church, previously begun, had cost about 10,000 in each of the last
new friend’s influence.
newly erected buildings were standing empty and that the serfs continued
new mustache. “now then, get on,” he shouted to the driver. “do
new pack of cards said: “bank, gentlemen!”
new path so attractively shown him by the masons, on which he firmly
news.
news and common acquaintances like people who do not know each other
news—if it’s not false. bennigsen seems to have obtained a complete
news i may take back to my poor boy.”
next came four soldiers, carrying something heavy on a cloak, and passed
next day, at eight in the morning, pierre and nesvítski drove to the
next day he woke late. recalling his recent impressions, the first
next day prince vasíli had arrived and settled in the count’s house.
next day rostóv saw denísov off. he did not wish to stay another
next day, the army began its campaign, and up to the very battle of
next day the french army did not renew their attack, and the remnant of
next day, the third of march, soon after one o’clock, two hundred and
next glanced round in alarm.
next morning, after the fatigues of their journey, the travelers slept
next morning when the valet came into the room with his coffee, pierre
next note, the next phrase, and everything in the world was divided into
“nice! and so you no longer wish to marry borís?”
nice... but it won’t do...not that... but as a friend, i shall always
nice indeed, quite french,” and he kissed the tips of his fingers.
    * nicholas.
nicholas and denísov were walking up and down, looking with kindly
nicholas began pacing up and down the room.
nicholas’ career and am heartless and ungrateful, while truly... god
“nicholas! come out in your dressing gown!” said natásha’s voice.
“nicholas, don’t tell me that!” she said.
“nicholas! get up!” natásha’s voice was again heard at the door.
“nicholas, have you come? come here, dear!” called the old countess
nicholas, having as usual exhausted two pairs of horses, without
nicholas. i never knew any madame jacquot.”
“nicholas is going away in a week’s time, his... papers... have
nicholas’ letter was read over hundreds of times, and those who were
nicholas rostóv turned away and, as if searching for something, gazed
nicholas rostóv, with denísov and his new acquaintance, dólokhov, sat
nicholas sat at some distance from sónya, beside julie karágina, to
nicholas straight in the eyes, “you know the saying, ‘lucky in love,
nicholas tried to say “yes,” but could not: and he nearly burst into
nicholas turned away from her. natásha too, with her quick instinct,
“nicholas!” was all sónya said, instantly turning white.
nicholas was to go with him to the regiment; then came anna mikháylovna
nicholas went to her, kissed her hand, and sitting down silently at her
“nicholas, will you come to iogel’s? please do!” said natásha.
(nicknamed in society, “the king of prussia”) ever since the emperor
night.”
night a motley throng of people sat there, not merrymaking, but somberly
night. but now, in the solitude of the journey, they seized him with
night he had not the slightest doubt, and the guiltlessness of
night i looked at the campfires and there was no end of them. a regular
night long without closing their eyes, while the adjutants and
night, so dark that the coachman could not see the carriage pole.
night when he had decided that to marry hélène would be a calamity and
“nikólenka... a letter... wa... a... s... wounded... my darling
nikólenka; by his relations as a charming, attractive, and polite young
“nikólenka, what is the matter?” sónya’s eyes fixed on him
“nikólenka... wounded... a letter,” she announced in gleeful
nineteenth, a great, excitedly bustling activity began which lasted till
ninety thousand strong, was to threaten prussia so as to bring her out
“no.”
“no.”
“no.”
no?”
no account have told a deliberate lie. he began his story meaning to
“no, andrew, i must say you have changed. oh, how you have....”
“no apologies, none whatever,” said dólokhov to denísov (who on
“nobody wants me!” thought rostóv. “there is no one to help me or
“no, but don’t you think it’s nice?” she kept repeating.
“no, but do promise! i won’t let you go! my dear benefactor...”
“no, but i have been in love a thousand times and shall fall in
“no, but imagine the old countess zúbova, with false curls and her
“no, but i must. it may be arrogant of me, but still it is best to say
“no, but i say,” said pierre, calming down, “you are a wonderful
“no, but listen,” she said, “now you are quite a man, aren’t
“no, but she said that it was all over and that he’s now an
“no, but what is it, my dear? do you want me to go and tell him?”
“no, call her you, please! i’ll tell you all about it some other
no, certainly i must not approach him, i must not intrude on his
“no,” cried he, becoming more and more eager, “napoleon is great
“no, dearest, sweet one, honey, i won’t give up—i know you know
“no, fifty,” replied the latter.
“no, friend, he is sharper-eyed than you are. boots and leg bands...
“no, friend,” said a pleasant and, as it seemed to prince andrew, a
no fruit. i never could understand the fondness some people have for
“no, gentlemen, no... you mustn’t think... i quite understand.
“no. give me the book,” said the stranger.
“no good... no good...” said the prince rapidly, and thrusting his
“no, he’s not a fool!” replied natásha indignantly and seriously.
“no, he thinks only of himself,” muttered the princess without
“no, i can’t agree with you! to live only so as not to do evil and
“no, i considered it erroneous and did not follow it,” said pierre,
“no, if i hadn’t thought of it being a treasure,” said rostóv,
“no, i hate my life,” pierre muttered, wincing.
“no, i have a wicked heart.”
“no, i have been transferred to the line,” said anatole, hardly able
“no, i have not; but this is what i have been thinking and wanted
“no, i meant to ask...” pierre began, but prince andrew interrupted
“no, impossible!” said prince andrew, laughing and pressing
“no, i mustn’t. i am so sorry for him! he’s so nice.”
“no, it can’t be helped, lad,” said the prince. “they’re
“no, i tell you.”
“no, it’s a sprain.”
“no, it’s only indigestion?... say it’s only indigestion, say so,
“no, it will not do,” she said decidedly, clasping her hands. “no,
“no, i will do it myself, only tell me what to say. it’s all very
“no, i won’t promise that. you don’t know how kutúzov is pestered
“no, i won’t,” said pierre, pushing anatole aside, and he went up
“no, leave me alone,” said princess mary.
no longer, as it should be, to avoid or attack the enemy, but solely to
no longer a young diplomat, as he had entered the service at the age
no longer looked at the french but paid attention to the sight-seers and
“no, mamma, but i’m so sorry for him. i don’t know how i’m to
“no, mamma, i’m not in love with him, i suppose i’m not in love
“no matter at all, my dear count,” she said, meekly closing her
“no matter, princess, don’t be alarmed,” said mary bogdánovna.
“no, merci, mon père.”
“no, mon père.”
no more. she is so affected. ask her in,” she said to the footman in a
“no, my dear fellow, i’ll be a wallflower,” said denísov.
none to anyone.”
nonintervention. and...” he paused. “finally one cannot impute the
“non, madame.” he smiled quite inappropriately.
“no, no! a thousand times no! i shall never agree with you,” said
“no, no!” cried natásha, “she and i have already talked it over.
“no! no! no! when your father writes to tell me that you are behaving
“no, no, please not... you are mademoiselle bourienne,” said
“no, nothing.”
“no, not on any account! i will tell him myself, and you’ll listen
nonreceipt of our dispatch of november 18. that is how it will end.”
‘nonsense!’”
nonsense, but it would in fact have been difficult to give any other
nonsense... but this is real.... now then, natásha, now then, dearest!
nonsense, but we are friends forever. she, if she loves anyone, does it
“nonsense!” he cried, and the veins on his forehead and neck stood
nonsense,” he thought. “the slur on my name and honor—that’s all
“nonsense, indeed! i am telling you the fact,” said natásha
“nonsense, nonsense!” cried the old man, shaking his pigtail to
nonsense out of your head.”
nonsense, the chief thing is not to forget the important thing i
“no one can attain to truth by himself. only by laying stone on stone
“no, one can’t hear them. they’d be firing if we had.”
no one had given túshin orders where and at what to fire, but after
no one slept.
no one would understand that it was not to quench his thirst or from
“no, on my true word of honor,” said natásha, crossing herself,
“no, on my word it’s not obstinacy! i can’t describe the feeling.
“no-o-o!” muttered dólokhov through his teeth, “no, it’s not
“no, papa is not back yet,” said sónya.
“no, pardon me, i won’t go now till the child is better,” thought
“no, peter nikoláevich; i only want to show that in the cavalry
“no, prince, our regiment has gone to the front, but i am attached...
“no, princess, i have lost your affection forever!” said
“no—promise that you will not refuse! it will give you no trouble
“no really, my dear, this dress is not pretty,” said lise, looking
no restrictions whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use
nose. his face was depressed and gloomy. he seemed to see and hear
“no? she is very nice and kind and, above all, she’s much to be
no sky but only an atmosphere.”
“no, sónya, but do you remember so that you remember him perfectly,
nostitz, the austrian general occupying the advanced posts, believed
no such reminiscences really exist—just as none existed in this case.
not a diplomatist. that’s why i joined the hussars, thinking that here
not a distinction,” said the diplomatist—“a gift, rather.”
“no talking in the ranks!... no talking, no talking!”
“not all, for you will not be there; not all,” said prince hippolyte
not a logical answer and not at all a reply to them. the answer was:
not answer. the hussar at that moment noticed the face of the red-nosed
“not at all bad!” he thought, examining her, “not at all bad, that
“not at all,” said prince andrew.
not at once raise, and he spent most of his time in the girls’ room.
not attract a moment’s attention to their own evolutions and did not
not been found nor was he on the list of prisoners. what was worst of
“not bonaparte. he is the emperor! sacré nom...!” cried he angrily.
“not bound to endure insults,” dólokhov concluded in loud, ringing
not breathe. he knew that he must do something to put an end to this
not but believe in the sincerity of those around him. besides, he had
not but tremble and his heart stand still at the imminence of that word.
not, but you have no grounds for telling me so. and that is the whole
not captured.” again he pondered. “i am very glad you have brought
not come and brought his pupil with him” (for some reason prince
not? delightful!”
not disfigured by the approach of death. it was the same as pierre
noted them down.
note. i am in such a state.... my only hope now is in count cyril
“no, tell them to harness.”
not evince the least interest during this explanation, but as if he were
not exist.
not expecting to come on the enemy down by the stream, and having
not expect you today,” he added. “i only sent you the note yesterday
not far from the artillery campfire, in a hut that had been prepared
not finding the young prince in his study the valet went with the
not forsake him. he will fulfill his vocation and crush the hydra of
not go to any large gatherings, but only to small receptions. prince
not have caused him to expect that honor. the prince, who generally kept
“no, there is no change. i only came to have a talk about business,
nothing.
nothing about firing it.”
nothing about it and have not thought about it. moscow is chiefly busy
“nothing,” answered princess mary, looking firmly with her radiant
nothing, but here on the one hand the local nobility have done me the
nothing but meanness, deceit, envy, intrigue, and ingratitude—the
nothing, but that. but even it does not exist, there is nothing but
nothing could be seen. pitch-dark, brother! isn’t there something to
nothing. i am very amiable and have a caustic wit,” continued prince
nothing is so necessary for a young man as the society of clever
nothing more important...” he paused, “than to have a good sleep.”
“nothing, my dear.”
nothing, nothing, nothing! no, don’t marry, my dear fellow; don’t
nothing of her and looks only at bourienne. no, she has no pride... but
“nothing of the sort. orders are issued for a battle.”
nothing of what was going on around him and to be absorbed by some
“nothing... only a shell...” he answered.
“nothing... only i feel sad... sad about andrew,” she said, wiping
nothing. she felt that sónya was speaking the truth, that there was
nothing to be happy about!” thought he.
nothing to him.... “i should perhaps have done the same thing in his
nothing when they have no powers; this one had none.... the austrians
“not hurt, petróv?” asked one.
noticeable one at the dinner. rostóv looked inimically at pierre,
noticed, left the room with a pleasant smile.
noticed that he was pale and that his jaw quivered and shook as if in an
noticed that they had not come to the front entrance but to the back
noticed the french appearing below them, and then they fired grapeshot
noticed the look of terror with which pierre regarded that lifeless arm,
noticing what a bad state of things it was. the regimental commander
not ill-spent. he is worth it!”
no time for reflection, as in petersburg. instead of the new life he had
no time. i hope, my dear friend, you will carry out your father’s
no time to ask himself whether these people were sincere or not. he
not intend to devote her life to serving prince bolkónski, to reading
“not in the least,” replied the vicomte. “after the murder of the
not, it was decided at a consultation between the battalion commanders
“not killed—wounded!” another officer corrected him.
not know: he therefore wished to speak to dolgorúkov.
not know him, but he is here, he is in me, he is in my words, he is in
not knowing what to do, and glanced inquiringly at his guide. anna
not knowing whether it would be proper to call the dying man “the
“not kutúzov, but what’s his name—well, never mind... there are
not leave the battery. he decided to have the guns removed from their
“not let the wife have him?” said the old man, and laughed.
not letting the abbé and pierre escape, anna pávlovna, the more
not like us sinners of the line,” cried rostóv, with martial swagger
not listening to it continued to dress while walking about, and three
not love liberty and equality? even our saviour preached liberty and
not many left alive. go that way, to that village, all the commanders
“not more stupid than you, madam,” said the nine-year-old pétya,
not moving a muscle.
“no, to kill a man is bad—wrong.”
“not on any account!” exclaimed rostóv.
“not only occupied, but bonaparte is at schönbrunn, and the count,
not only without interest but even as if ashamed of what pierre was
not realize that he had come. his coming had nothing to do with
not replying to the austrian.
not resume your former way of life. and now i wish you a good journey,
not right.”
not rise. rostóv also tried to rise but fell back, his sabretache
not see him at all.”
“not seen duport—the famous dancer? well then, you won’t
not see or understand him and may not see or understand his own vileness
not see ten paces ahead. bushes looked like gigantic trees and level
not suit in the least. not in the least! please change it.”
not ten times wounded, killed, or betrayed, well... what then?...”
“not that either. that puts the court in too bad a light,” replied
not to challenge bolkónski. “of course not!” he now thought. “is
not to have to repent is not enough. i lived like that, i lived for
not to notice one another. when having limbered up the only two cannon
not two minutes had passed before prince vasíli with head erect
not understand what he ought to do then it will be my affair—yes, my
not used to it. she will retaliate. and she has been fooled in the
not venture to ask any questions, and shut the door again, now sitting
not wanted here? go to the other girls, or...”
not what he had read that vexed him, but the fact that the life out
not wish it. in a word, i make no promise. and i beg you to consider
notwithstanding the tone of wearied assurance with which these words
notwithstanding this, borís embraced him in a quiet, friendly way and
not worse than this one.”
“not yet. but where are you off to?”
not yet dispersed before another puff appeared, followed by a report.
not you! go back or i’ll flatten you into a pancake,” repeated he.
novelty she offered her guests this time was not mortemart, but a
novosíltsev, prince volkónsky, strógonov, and the others, all richly
now.”
“now about your family. do you know that since your daughter came
now aiming, now counting the charges, now giving orders about replacing
“no, wait, pierre! the princess is too kind to wish to deprive me of
now approached the sick man with the noiseless step of one in full vigor
now at her, moved as if about to rise too, but changed his mind.
now before i am off duty. i’ll take another turn and when i get back
now centered round the emperor. so we will go to dolgorúkov; i have to
“now come, come! be reasonable. i know your excellent heart.”
“now, dear boy,” said prince vasíli playfully, “say ‘yes,’
now gradually opening before me.” but five of the other virtues which
“no! what is there to talk about?” said pierre. “it’s all the
“no! what kind, márya dmítrievna? what kind?” she almost screamed;
nowhere encountering the enemy. on the contrary, the soldiers became
nowhere to hunt with your dogs? but what is to be done, old man? just
now he was a lieutenant of hussars, in a jacket laced with silver, and
“now i am all right,” she said, and asking the vicomte to begin, she
“now i must disclose to you the chief aim of our order,” he said,
“now i see it all! i know who has been intriguing—i know!” cried
“now look out for the ball... we’ll throw it back.”
now on one side, now on the other, giving his face an unpleasant
now permissible; “the door to the left, ma’am.”
“now?” repeated natásha, and a happy smile lit up her face. “have
now rose and took their leave. the visitor’s daughter was already
now,” said another.
“now, sídorov, you have a try!”
“now, sónya!” she said, going to the very middle of the room, where
“now the fun begins,” thought anatole, sitting down with a smile
now then, darling! how will she take that si? she’s taken it! thank
“now then, go away and take your monstrosity with you,” said the
“now then, go on, go on!” incited the officer, bending forward and
“now then, let’s see how far it will carry, captain. just try!”
“now then, matvévna, dear old lady, don’t let me down!” he was
“now then, now then, i’m only joking!” he said. “remember this,
“now then, váska,” said nicholas.
“now then, you devil’s puppet, look alive and hunt for it!”
now there’s this recruiting.”
now the smile of the little princess—influenced by the general mood
now,” thought rostóv driving his spurs into rook and letting him go
“now thou hast seen the lesser light,” uttered a voice. then the
now told about that affair!”
now to look at dólokhov, who was sitting opposite him. every time
“now, véra, what does it matter to you?” said natásha in defense,
now was evidently ready with a joke. “whether tomorrow brings
now we shall get anything we want from his hothouses. i have to see him
“now what does this mean, gentlemen?” said the staff officer, in
now, when my heart fails me and my mouth feels dry at the mere sight
“now you don’t know that at all!” said nicholas. “but i must
“now you, young prince, what’s your name?” said prince bolkónski,
“no, you don’t understand!”
“no, you know it’s too soon for news. but my father is anxious and i
“no, you’ll never manage him that way,” said anatole. “wait a
number of men had perished in fleeing from pratzen. the french had not
number one jumped briskly aside. the gun rang out with a deafening
nurse and nurse sávishna in the late princess’ rooms and princess
nurse, praskóvya sávishna, who hardly ever came to that room as the
nursery.”
nurse sávishna, knitting in hand, was telling in low tones, scarcely
nurse’s french, at which he and borís used to laugh long ago.
obedience—which did not even seem to him a virtue, but a joy. (he now
obedient, and insignificant atom. they followed prince dolgorúkov out
obeying, and suddenly doubts arose in his mind. “where am i? what am
object above his head and, holding it there for some seconds, suddenly
object it is necessary that... the first column marches... the second
objects mentioned by the rhetor, this last, that of improving mankind,
obligingly took the dish from bagratión (or he would, it seemed, have
obtain a post on the commander in chief’s staff. berg and borís,
obtained his captaincy during the campaign, had gained the confidence of
obtained through an acquaintance and sent to her son, asking him to take
obviously strange to her to think that this stern handsome man should be
obviously trying to restrain within the bounds of decorum the excitement
occasionally drew it down to meet the lower lip. as is always the case
occasioned by the sausage eaters.
occupation, came up to her for a moment and made haste to go away,
occupation of the town of wischau and the capture of a whole french
occupied by the emperors and their retinues.
occupied. he was himself always occupied: writing his memoirs, solving
occupied with evening parties, dinners, lunches, and balls, giving him
occupy is a strong one, and while they are marching to go round me on
occupy the position and prepare for an attack.”
occurred to him. on the contrary, he became more and more elated. it
occurred to him, though the question he was about to ask was the chief
occurred to his regiment, but in reality he did not himself know what
o’clock all had been brought into due order. the ranks were drawn
o’clock left the third column with which he had been and galloped
odýntsova had married an old man, and that there was a suitor for mary,
o’erpassed,” said an old priest to a lady who had taken a seat
of a battle but also disbelieved in the nearness of an engagement.
of affairs?” concluded his father. “but it troubles me. i don’t
of a girl, but i like her.”
of a gun at ismail.
of all that mass of huge and handsome men, of all those brilliant,
of all these brilliant young men.
of all. this gift will be a pledge of your purity of heart to her whom
of alms” went round to all the brothers. pierre would have liked
of a man who enjoys life and knows how to live, he swayed to and
of amusement which someone for some reason had to provide for him.
of an attack spread through the squadron. the command to form up rang
of, and am going to rejoin my regiment, i am giving a farewell supper
of an immense fortune. the will has not yet been opened. i know you
of a parade. we had expected, as i told you, to get at their rear by
of a pleasure, and obliges me to interrupt you. i am very sorry to leave
of a ruling prince, in a crown—an alleged descendant of rúrik and
of a sin he could neither remedy nor forget. he could not weep. the
of assurance and haste, pierre concluded that it was all absolutely
of a subject, she did not stop talking, but chattered about the
of a surgeon who has just performed a difficult operation and admits the
of austerlitz, but wore a tight new uniform with russian and foreign
of austerlitz: nine tenths of the men in the russian army were then in
of awe and even servility. a deference such as he had never before
of bagratión’s detachment. his hussars were placed along the line
of battles was evidently culminating in a panic.
of beginning anew pictured to himself the blissful, irreproachable,
of being afraid roused him again. “i cannot be afraid,” thought he,
of believing in the possibility of attaining perfection, and in the
of birds.
of blessedness which now flooded his heart with glad emotion.
of bonaparte.
of bonaparte, encountering a population that was unfriendly to it,
of capacity for philosophical meditation (to which he himself was
of cavalry came up and disappeared in the sea of mist. in front and
of columns from russia, of some victory gained by the austrians, and of
of command.
of communications, recross the river lower down, and frustrate his
of contempt. “and believe me, if i still value my life it is
of count bezúkhov’s death. she said the count had died as she would
“of course. i’m going into action! i’ve shaved, bwushed my teeth,
“of course, it is a very brilliant match, but happiness, my dear...”
“of course, we only just missed one another,” said the staff
“of course. what is it?”
of cowardice in the other. both passed the examination successfully. as
of cruelty, as when tying the policeman to the bear and dropping them
of deep bass voices, and in the intervals sighs and the shuffling of
of delighted amazement.
of disease without help while material assistance could so easily be
of dread was in the air. it was evident that the affair so lightly begun
of each.
of each shot, as at the word of command, the whole squadron with its
of england, inspired by such hatred of our nation! this victory will
of eternal peace and blessedness?” she thought.
of everything. one must think of the future, of all of you... i love you
of exasperation. “don’t you hear it’s his majesty the emperor’s
of expression and intonation that obliged one to listen to each
of expression on his face. now his forehead would pucker into deep folds
of face, evidently worn out with childbearing—she had had twelve.
off; and here at last was a russian prince. mademoiselle bourienne knew
off, and the firing had begun to subside. suddenly, near by on the
off—and this is what comes of it!” said prince andrew in an
of fate and the designs of rogues. during the few days he spent in
off at every moment. they waited and listened.
off completely and surround his exhausted army of forty thousand, and he
of fear for his young and happy life, possessed his whole being. rapidly
of fellow. as for the past two years people have amused themselves
offended tone.
offend me. really i have some,” rostóv repeated.
offensive, the plan of which, carefully prepared in accord with the
offered a most striking contrast to his quiet, little wife. it was
off his cloak.
off his courage, had ridden on to the planks of the bridge:
off his eyes and glanced around him. the room was in black darkness,
officer.”
officer and a wounded hero, would it be right to remind him of herself
officer arrived, but at a sign resumed his measured, monotonous pacing.
officer as in a looking glass—started, moved forward, and answered:
officer has stolen...”
officer in charge of transport was beating the soldier who was driving
officer in the semënov regiment with whom borís was to travel to join
officer in the white uniform of the horse guards.
officer joined in the colonel’s appeals, but bagratión did not reply;
officer of the suite by the arm. “look! a man has fallen! fallen,
officer passing by addressed him:
officer pointing to the soldiers. “the officers don’t keep them in
officers.
officer!” said bagratión to rostóv, “are the enemy’s skirmishers
officers became animated. the guardsmen told rostóv of their march and
officers, but every soldier with his freshly washed and shaven face and
officers buttoned up their coats, buckled on their swords and pouches,
officers,” continued the staff captain, “and bogdánich” (the
officer sends for auersperg; these gentlemen embrace the officers, crack
officers, generals, and adjutants, as they passed rostóv going or
officers. now what was the colonel to do? have the officer tried and
officer’s remark was just and that really no answer could be made to
officers were counting the men, poking the last man in each section in
officers who had been standing together rode off to their places. the
officers who had gathered at his quarters. the little old man with
officer, that he would drink a bottle of rum sitting on the outer ledge
officer, with a smile to bolkónski.
official appointed to the province in which the prince’s estate lay
of fire and had descended into the dip, he was met by some of the staff,
off on the line of kutúzov’s retreat. if he reached znaim before the
of for a single moment during the whole service. he judged by the
of fugitives, prince andrew, trying to keep near kutúzov, saw on the
of habit said things he did not even wish to be believed.
of having been dutiful et tout ce qui s’ensuit!* that’s certain.”
of hearts. on the previous sunday the old count had given his son
of hearts with a torn corner, which he had picked up from the floor. he
of hélène. some, as if unwilling to distract her from an important
of her most august majesty the empress márya fëdorovna. pierre felt
of her neutrality and draw her into the war; how part of that army was
of her saint’s-day fete, turned away at once and addressed herself to
of her worthlessness he was also dreaming of how she would be his
of him—at the battery. he now saw clearly the figure of a red-haired
of him, listened to him, admired, and imitated him, and with them prince
of him?” not one of the innumerable speeches addressed to the emperor
of his appearance before her now. prince andrew went round the sofa and
of his book with his old hands which from excitement he could not keep
of his coat and looking down at him—the englishman was short—began
of his commissions and ordered the small closed carriage for her.
of his former bachelor acquaintances many were no longer in petersburg.
of his mouth and winking at the count.
of his own, goodness only knows why, he leaves me and locks me up alone
of his return.
of his speech. “vous comptez vous faire des rentes sur l’état; *
of his whip fell on the apron of the equipage. the woman screamed
of his words for the solemnity of the moment, as he spoke. “i
of horses had been sent up the highroad to meet the german doctor from
of horse’s hoofs approaching at a trot along the line of hussars was
of how beside himself and all aflame with excitement, he had flown like
of how to get away quickly to her own room to make out the problem in
of inviting the other to take a seat beside him. pierre felt reluctant
of it. prince andrew” (he always spoke thus of his son) “has been
of its honeyed firmness and softness.
of its rightful king,” she concluded, trying to be amiable to the
of it. the only question is, has it been destroyed or not? if not, then
of joy in his eyes, looked round him, not knowing how to answer the
of lannes’ sharpshooters were already seen crossing the milldam and
of life, with his delicate white fingers raised from the green quilt the
of love and sadness. it was plain that she was following a train of
of love and self-sacrifice. and cost what it may, i will arrange
of love which pervaded the rostóv household that winter and, now after
of mack’s defeat, the camp life of the officers of this squadron was
of mack, the news of his defeat, and the thought of what lay before the
of men and horses, from the little puffs of smoke on the enemy’s side
of mind, pierre carried out an intention he had long had of visiting his
of mingled shame and vexation.
of now as the “seeker,” now as the “sufferer,” and now as the
of officers and courtiers, was riding a bobtailed chestnut mare, a
of olmütz where bolkónski had seen him for the first time abroad, but
of one another, and then, as if afraid of being too late, seized each
of other things and to look in other directions, thought only of what
of permission previously given him by kutúzov to be present at the
of peter and paul, his patron saints. in another place the women with
of pride, indolence, and ignorance. forgive me, my dear sir, but if i
of profound thought. the round, steady, hawk’s eyes looked before him
of prussia, in order to draw borís into the conversation.
of prussia’s consent by assault. you are so eloquent. will you give me
of reflection are generally in a serious frame of mind. at such moments
of rum in his hand was approaching the window, from which the light of
of,” said the princess in the same petulantly playful tone in which
of sergéy kuzmích and at the same time his eyes glanced toward his
of several thousand men could produce. the lights spread farther and
of shots retreated. in the highest army circles from midday on the
of sixteen, evidently passionately in love with him (he did not doubt
of sixteen, had been in paris and copenhagen, and now held a rather
of slaves? have you helped them physically and morally? no! you have
of smoke that had concealed the hollow, driven by a rising wind, began
of some dislocation and blunder spread through the ranks. how such
of something too large and unsuited to the place, came over her face
of sons and brothers.
of sónya, who blushed and smiled unnaturally. in the midst of his talk
of speech and of the press—and only for that reason did he obtain
often heard from his fellow hussars.
often heard. “what is this?” thought prince andrew approaching the
often than at anyone else and took delight in his every movement.
of that song.
of the action balls and shells began flying all over his regiment and
of the actual battlefield. they began to meet wounded men. one with a
of the advance. as soon as an austrian officer showed himself near
of the army into the hands of a better informed and more skillful
of the azóv and podólsk infantry and the pávlograd hussars—was
of the behavior of the eldest princess and prince vasíli she spoke
of the boulevards whom he visited of an evening. he led the mazurka
of the campfire, waving his uplifted arm.
of the candles was focused on those two happy faces alone.
of the cannon. he heard the whistle of bullets above him unceasingly and
of the club, beset the new arrivals. count ilyá, again thrusting his
of the club from the day it was founded. to him the club entrusted the
of the colonel, nesvítski, zherkóv, and the officer from the suite.
of the commander in chief’s special favor he was sent with the news of
of the dam, throwing two soldiers off their feet, and ran onto the
of the dip in the ground at the rear was hurried and noisy, but the
of the emperor like a cloud of haze across a clear sky and vanished.
of the enemy’s lines, which all day long had yielded ground to us
of the feebleness of age, “bolkónski!” he whispered, pointing to
of the field he stood on was well-known and familiar ground. though he
of the frenchmen with the gunners ended, whether the red-haired gunner
of the french were coming down upon them and that his regiment was in
of the general sorrow.
of the gospel: “in the beginning was the word and the word was with
of the guards, a girl of fifteen, and a plump rosy-faced boy in a short
of the hand on the dial of human history.
of the intellectual essence of petersburg,” as she herself put it.
of the lathe he removed his foot from the pedal, wiped his chisel,
of the lean sinewy hand, showed that the prince still possessed the
of the lovers. “that’s happiness!”
of the maids who was present. (mary bogdánovna was a midwife from the
of the majestic emperor. casually, while surveying the squadron, the
of the meal and was certain that there was some secret between her
of them forgot what was happening and what was about to happen in the
of them will have any meaning for me. tomorrow perhaps, even certainly,
of the nearness of the emperor francis’ black cob, nor of all that was
of the newly commissioned officer were collected. anna mikháylovna,
of the night. the gloom that enveloped the army was filled with their
of the nineteenth march, and her downy little lip rose from old habit,
of the oft-repeated passage of the sonata. prince andrew stopped and
of the orderlies and servants.
of the president, who held a mallet in his hand. let into the wall was
of the river.
of the road were forests of different kinds, fields, and villages.
of the room. prince andrew turned to him, but the doctor gave him a
of the sayings and doings of their commander, the grand duke, and told
of the second gun’s crew was “uncle”; túshin looked at him more
of these maneuvers that enabled us to escape him. buxhöwden pursues
of the service the voices of the priests suddenly ceased, they whispered
of the sleigh.
of the statutes and these remained in his mind.
of the streams and hollows of sokolnitz and schlappanitz beyond which we
of the sun. in front, far off on the farther shore of that sea of mist,
of the thabor bridge is delightful! it is not exactly stupidity, nor
of the third company!”
of the third floor window with his legs hanging out.
of the three precepts of freemasonry pierre realized that he did not
of the unwritten code of subordination—looked so fixedly at the
of the upper lip formed a sharp wedge and closed firmly on the firm
of the victory that had been gained. prince andrew introduced his
of the war and without leaders. the moscovites felt that something was
of the war that had been announced in a manifesto, and about the
of the way! make way!”
of the wood ran out of it, the different companies getting mixed, and
of things to him in the very worst light, pointing out the necessity of
of thirteen, hiding something in the folds of her short muslin frock,
of this delicious russian tea,” lorrain was saying with an air of
of this kind for another, which from pride he would never accept for
of this set.
of those frenchmen,” he said. “what nasty brutes they are! i’d
of those rare women with whom a man’s honor is safe; but, o god, what
of truth, my dear sir, but have thrust her into an abyss of deceit and
of túshin’s battery. prince andrew followed with the suite. behind
of twenty; sónya a girl of sixteen with all the charm of an opening
of voices, the tramping feet, the horses’ hoofs moving in mud, the
of weyrother’s voice, he opened his one eye with an effort.
of which kutúzov was standing began to shout, he rode a little to one
     of whom you have made a friend, but not for you, not for
“of whom you imagine me to be one?” said prince andrew, with a quiet
of wind blowing over the army slightly stirred the streamers on the
of wounded pride, and a hope of glory. “and should there be nothing
of you.”
of your misfortune.” he seemed to emphasize the last word, as if to
of yours, is not at all to blame that my face has the misfortune to
oh, andrew! what a treasure of a wife you have,” said she, sitting
“oh, but you were there?” said prince bagratión, addressing prince
“oh dear, what a beast i am!” muttered rostóv, as he read the
“oh dear, what am i thinking about? i’ve mixed everything up. one
“oh, denísov is quite different,” replied nicholas, implying that
“oh, don’t mention it, count! i quite understand,” said berg,
“oh, don’t speak of his going, don’t! i won’t hear it spoken
“oh, don’t speak to me of austria. perhaps i don’t understand
“oh, every bullet has its billet,” answered váska denísov, turning
“oh god, what would happen to me if the emperor spoke to me?”
“oh, go to the devil!” called out a voice, drowned by the laughter
“oh, heaven! how ill he is!” exclaimed the mother.
“oh, he is in a dreadful state,” said the mother to her son when
“oh, he is so kind!” answered princess mary.
“oh, he’s all right, a good horse,” answered rostóv, though the
“oh, how delightful it is!” she kept saying, running up to sónya.
“oh, how dreadful! how can you laugh at it, count?”
oh, how i would guard him, how i would tell him the truth, how i would
“oh, how nice, how splendid!” she said to everything.
“oh, how nice,” thought natásha; and when sónya and nicholas had
oh, how that chord vibrated, and how moved was something that was finest
“oh, hush, please!” said another.
“oh, i must give you a treat,” bilíbin whispered to bolkónski.
“oh! i thought you were in your room,” she said, for some reason
“oh, it’s nothing. i only wished to say...” (he wanted to repeat
“oh, it’s terrible to feel oneself so in this man’s power,”
“oh, it’s wetched! well, what are you standing there for, you
“oh, leave off!” said the accountant with a beaming but rather
“oh, leave off, you always talk nonsense and keep putting things
“oh, little countess!” ... and the count began bustling to get out
“oh, my bower new...!” chimed in twenty voices, and the castanet
“oh, my bower, oh, my bower...!”
“oh, my dear fellow, we’re in such a stew here these last two
“oh, my god! my god! schmidt!” he exclaimed in german. “what a
“oh, my god! thank god!” said princess mary. “i must go and meet
“oh, natásha!” said sónya, looking ecstatically and earnestly at
“oh no, let me off, countess,” denísov replied.
“oh, no, no!” and besides the pallor and the physical suffering
“oh no, not at all! on the contrary, i am very glad to make your
“oh no, not at all too young!” replied the count. “why, our
“oh no!” said iogel, hastening to reassure him. “you were only
“oh, nothing,” said he, as if weary of being continually asked the
“oh, nurse, i’m so glad!”
“oh! oh!” exclaimed several voices.
“oh! oh!” groaned nesvítski as if in fierce pain, seizing the
“oh! oh! oh!”
“oh! oh! oh!” groaned kutúzov despairingly and looked around....
“oh! oh! oh!” he muttered, looking down from the window at the
“oh, take those off... those...” she said, pointing to his
“oh, that is all the same,” dolgorúkov said quickly, and getting up
“oh, that is dreadful, dreadful!” said pierre. “i don’t
“oh, that’s it!” said rostóv, evidently thinking of something
oh, that wicked prince hippolyte!” she said.
“oh, the faiwy! she can do anything with me!” said denísov, and
“oh, those moscow gossips!” said dólokhov, and he took up the cards
“oh, to die, to die for him,” thought rostóv.
“oh, very well, you may stay in attendance on me.”
“oh, well then, good-by: go and dress. is he very terrible,
“oh, well, well!” remarked the regimental commander. “still, one
“oh, what a nuisance,” said dolgorúkov, getting up hurriedly and
“oh, what a pig i am, not to have written and to have given them
“oh, what are you talking about?” said another. “where is he to
“oh, what a terrible state he is in! one would not know him, he is so
“oh, what nonsense!” cried natásha, laughing. “i don’t think
“oh, yes!”
“oh yes,” assented princess mary, “perhaps that’s it. i’ll go.
“oh, yes, i quite understand,” answered rostóv, who was under his
“oh yes, it is horribly stupid,” said pierre.
“oh yes, like that, i know, i only forgot,” said he.
“oh, yes!” said pierre, with a forced smile. “i am very grateful
“oh yes, very much! my brother knows him, he’s dined with him—the
“oh, you damned dandies! clean and fresh as if you’d been to a fete,
“oh, you don juan! you serpent!” cried several voices.
“oh, you fool!” said the old man, spitting angrily. some time passed
“oh, you guards!” said rostóv. “i say, send for some wine.”
“oh, your excellency!” said franz, with difficulty rolling the
old age and tobacco, which she had known so long. “now, madam, these
old bolkónski had always had a poor opinion of prince vasíli’s
old chamberlain was heard assuring an old baroness that he loved her
old count bezúkhov, and his inheritance. fancy! the three princesses
older visitors. they now, stretching themselves after sitting so long,
oldest rose. márya dmítrievna paused at the door. tall and stout,
old father, and entering the military service, my dear. and there was a
old fellow? out of sorts?”
old fool,” he thought. “that princess hélène will be beautiful
old gabriel brought in the wine.
old lady next to her and glanced angrily at her daughter, and her sigh
old man continued to fold and seal his letter, snatching up and throwing
old man, living alone in the country for so many years, could know and
old man, shaking his powdered head as much as the tail, which tíkhon
old man too came up and kissed the waxen little hands that lay quietly
old michael was asleep on the chest. prokófy, the footman, who was
old miller had been accustomed to sit in his tasseled cap peacefully
old prince had forbidden it, appeared on the threshold with a shawl
old prince nicholas bolkónski received a letter from prince vasíli
old princess, kissing her soundly. “if i hadn’t this headache i’d
old prince understood from this official report that our army had been
olga went out. pierre stood looking at the sisters; then he bowed and
olmütz and that he wanted to see him as he had a letter and money for
olmütz, was preparing to be reviewed next day by the two emperors—the
“o lord god! thou who art in that heaven, save, forgive, and protect
on.
on account of the smoke nothing could be seen. the nearer they got to
on a chair in the ballroom, crossing one leg high over the other,
on a few steps he stopped before prince andrew, who lay on his back with
on a hot dish.
on all sides, had stopped because a horse in front had fallen under a
on all sides. the countess rose and went into the ballroom.
on all sides they saw rain-soaked officers with dejected faces who
on anything. it was about this choice that prince andrew was speaking.
on around him. not only was he indifferent as to whether he got to
on a sofa in a far corner of the room. he closed his eyes and seemed to
on at the crossing. and why are they dawdling there?”
on being relieved from picket duty rostóv had managed to get a few
on both sides. behind our position was a steep and deep dip, making it
once.”
“once again, colonel,” said the general, “i can’t leave half
once been in to see the count. he has not sent for me.... i am sorry for
once for a moment of glory, of triumph over men, of love from men i
once he raised his eyebrows, abruptly touched his horse with his left
once more the conversations concentrated, the ladies’ at the one end
once recognized it to be a tuft of grass. she was terribly close to him.
once she has said...”
once the stranger closed the book, putting in a marker, and again,
once was—did not struggle, and perhaps she was right. nothing has been
on cloaks or mantles, and drive away. the conversation was on the chief
on condition that she should tell no one.
on duty every day, or may place me under arrest, but no one can make
one another.
one another, beginning to see one another through the mist. they had the
one another time to ask questions and give replies concerning a thousand
one but the emperor of russia has that right.
“one!” came the command.
“one can’t everywhere say all one thinks, mon cher. well, have
“one can’t write so fast, your honor,” said the clerk, glancing
one considers that by tomorrow one may be dead, or something so
one day’s ration of bread remains, and in some regiments none at all,
one feels as if one were in the country.”
one foot, bounded from the floor like a ball, and flew round the room
one foot, from the orderly and began to mount.
one had put but which was always in her mind, “and how much suffering,
one i’d give my life for her! but those!...” and he made a gesture
one is to interfere with his arrangements—leads his division to
one moment prayed to god as he had done on the battlefield at the bridge
“one moment, your excellency.”
“one more question, count,” he said, “which i beg you to answer
“one must admit,” continued prince andrew, “that napoleon as a man
“one must be indulgent to little weaknesses; who is free from them,
one of disdain which was quite uncalled for. his fertile mind instantly
one of the Ápsheron regiment went forward past the emperor.
one of the guests. “the vicomte is a wonderful raconteur,” said she
one of the hindmost guns that was going onto the dam turned off onto the
one of the lodges over the road purposely laden with snow.
one of them knew, not one of them wanted to know, and not one of them
one of them was a sallow, clean-shaven civilian with a thin and wrinkled
one of them was leading by the bridle a fine large french horse he had
one of the next arrivals was a stout, heavily built young man with
one of the players said he hoped he might be trusted.
one. “oh, this senseless life of ours!” thought nicholas. “all
one pair at each window. she stopped and smiled scornfully. sónya was
one quite at home, and from habit immediately lay down on the sofa, took
one reviews the past and plans for the future. prince andrew’s face
one seldom finds nowadays among our old men of twenty and, particularly,
(one shattered gun and one unicorn were left behind), prince andrew rode
“one should make up to the husbands of pretty women,” said denísov.
one side of which symbolized god, another moral things, a third
one spot. his predictions were being justified. part of the russian
“one step beyond that boundary line which resembles the line dividing
“one thing i ask of your excellency,” dólokhov said in his firm,
“one thing i thank god for is that i did not kill that man,” said
“o-ne! t-wo! thwee!” he shouted angrily and stepped aside.
“one was damaged,” answered the staff officer, “and the other i
one was on a white horse. prince bagratión and prince dolgorúkov with
one.... whom, i ask you, can we rely on?... england with her commercial
one word after another, came through the open door. she was speaking as
one would have expected of him.
one would have thought it impossible for a man to stretch himself
one would have to... the metropolitan himself... and even then it
one would not need finesse; and he tells me that i am lying—so let him
on february 26, 1807, the old prince set off on one of his circuits.
on! go on!” and cries of horror were heard in the crowd. the soldiers
on hearing of the arrival of the letter went softly into the room and
on hearing the news was one of anger with sónya.... he tried to say,
on hélène’s name day, a small party of just their own people—as
on her face.
on her lips, she got up and left the room. all nicholas’ animation
on her priority) “that that senseless young man was spoiled by the
on her toes any longer. “so that’s what i’m up to! i’ll never
on him by the doctors, clergy, and relatives of the family. prince
on himself. he could remain silent for hours without being at all put
on him. the empress’ chamberlain invited him to see her majesty. the
on him without changing their expression. “i love you all and have
on his arm as if that touch might soothe or rouse him.
on his pupil’s behalf. that’s how it’s to be understood! ‘how
on his return to moscow from the army, nicholas rostóv was welcomed
on his saber, and put on his cap.
on his seat, lowered his hands, moved a little to the right and then to
on his side of it.
on his thin bony legs, and keeping on a worn, nankeen-covered, sheepskin
on horseback facing the ditch. one with a white plume in his hat seemed
on in his usual tone of indifference.
on!” innumerable voices suddenly shouted after the ball had struck
on kutúzov’s staff, among his fellow officers and in the army
onlookers for what was to follow. as soon as the provocatively gay
only a small lamp was burning inside something white. pierre went nearer
only because i still hope to meet such a divine creature, who will
only betrayed us three times in three years. we take up their cause, but
only bivouacking here and have just come to look round. i am going back
only by the elite.
only change being that the words “father kámenski” were replaced by
only covered by her garments. and having once seen this he could not
“only fools and rakes fall ill, my boy. you know me: i am busy from
only heard dólokhov’s hurried steps, and his figure came in view
only help a bit! i must have singers too. i shall have my own orchestra,
only his eyes were brighter than usual.
“only let me report this gentleman’s business, and i shall be at
only lit fires to deceive us.
only now, when he was confronted by the stern authorities, did his guilt
only pressed it to the cold braiding of his hussar’s jacket. denísov,
only sónya, nicholas, and natásha, but even the old countess,
only sure happiness in life.”
“only take care you and your cossacks are not all captured!” said
only telling you what it is. napoleon has also formed his plan by now,
only that all the men of the day were mere babies who did not know the
“only that?” said bolkónski.
only to express his rapture fully.
only when approaching bagratión did rostóv let his horse gallop again,
only when prince andrew was gone did rostóv think of what he ought to
“on my honor!”
on november 1 kutúzov had received, through a spy, news that the army
on october 11, 1805, one of the infantry regiments that had just reached
on october 11, the day when all was astir at headquarters over the news
on our right flank commanded by bagratión, at nine o’clock the battle
on purpose to vex us. the archduke karl does nothing, the archduke
on reaching petersburg pierre did not let anyone know of his arrival,
on reaching the village he dismounted and went to the nearest house,
on retiring to her own room, she sat in an armchair, her eyes fixed on a
on returning from the review, kutúzov took the austrian general into
on seeing rostóv before him, with whom he would inevitably collide.
on snowy-white smooth pillows, evidently freshly changed, pierre
on—that pierre became quite bewildered and only replied:
on that third of march, all the rooms in the english club were filled
“on the 4th, the first courier arrives from petersburg. the mails
on the arm of a colonel of hussars, a man of importance to them because
on the arm said:
“on the contrary,” he said, in a querulous and angry tone that
on the contrary it gave her an unnatural, and therefore unpleasant,
“on the contrary,” replied the prince, who had plainly become
“on the contrary, that coiffure suits the princess very well,” said
on the contrary, they stimulated his energy and determination.
on the cot.
on the eighteenth and nineteenth of november, the army advanced two
on the evening of the last day’s march an order had been received that
on the field.
on the field before the fortress. now thousands of feet and bayonets
on the first arrival of the news of the battle of austerlitz, moscow had
on the french side, amid the groups with cannon, a cloud of smoke
on the ground.
on the high ground where the enemy was, the smoke of a cannon rose,
on the little princess’ face, an expression of childish fear of
‘on the march’ it meant in greatcoats?” said he reproachfully to
on the morning of the day that the young couple were to arrive, princess
on the opposite side the enemy could be seen by the naked eye, and from
on the other an immense case containing icons, was brightly illuminated
on the other side, the children, tutors, and governesses. from behind
on the pratzen heights, where he had fallen with the flagstaff in his
on. the preoccupation and despondency which pierre had noticed in his
“on the same business. but you are damp! let me wring you out!”
on the snow.
on the soft springs of the carriage, he turned to prince andrew.
on the table, again bound his eyes.
on the third day after christmas nicholas dined at home, a thing he had
on the top of her head (a style that quite altered and spoiled her
on the twelfth of november, kutúzov’s active army, in camp before
on the twenty-eighth of october kutúzov with his army crossed to the
on the unattractive martyrlike expression it so often wore, as she
on the way home, prince andrew could not refrain from asking kutúzov,
on the way to his sister’s room, in the passage which connected one
on this high ground, shall withdraw the left flank under its cover, and
“on tuesday between eight and nine. it will give me great pleasure.”
    * “on vous fera danser.”
on what he thought right. the steward promised to do all in his power to
on which rostóv sat.
on which with a broken bit of chalk he had written “800 rubles” in
on you. you complain of our separation. what then should i say, if i
“oooh! for christ’s sake let me alone!” cried the wounded man, but
opened eyes. “what has happened to her? how she is singing today!”
opened the bedroom door.
opened the door which moved noiselessly and easily. she paused at the
open it. someone was holding it shut.
operations according to him were connected with such complicated
opinion,” said she, turning to the young man who, having come quite
opinions, but you see what a capital, good-natured fellow i am.” and
opportunity of joining in the general current of recollections.
opportunity since morning to meet one another alone. when princess mary
opportunity to express his own views, as young people are fond of doing.
opposite, in front of which large masses of french were advancing.
opposite pierre and seemed very gay. rostóv was talking merrily to his
opposite. pierre spoke little but examined the new faces, and ate a
or anybody; but you are free to choose.... go to your room, think it
or appreciative according to the way the joke was received. everybody
“or are you afraid to play with me?” dólokhov now asked as if
or cap, his head was bandaged, and over his shoulder a french munition
ordained that the austrian army should maneuver the previous year on the
ordeal was about to begin.
order.
ordered his horse at once and, coldly taking leave of borís, rode
ordered the horses to be harnessed. only those things he always kept
ordered to turn back to the right. several thousand cavalry crossed in
orderly by the shoulders and knocking him against the wall.
orderly, running behind the cart and fumbling in the back of it.
orderly to the bravest general, and still more, he was going with a
order not to lose his head and do foolish things he must not act on his
order of maria theresa on his neck and a black bandage round his head,
orders.
orders, and the star of st. george on his left breast. evidently just
orders by heart and know the regulations as well as i do the lord’s
orders the sergeant to be arrested. come, you must own that this affair
orders to admit no more, but the porter was told to be sure to invite to
orders to the club steward and to the famous feoktíst, the club’s
orders which showed that the russian troops, who had hitherto been
order to make borís’ better acquaintance, promised to come to dinner,
order. you are causing me to lose the fruits of a campaign. break
ordinary staid and respectful good manners habitual in the prince’s
or even to wish to be thought to listen. exactly opposite weyrother,
or gray horses; then again, spreading out with the brazen clatter of the
or he would suddenly feel ashamed of he knew not what. he felt it
or kutúzov was. some said the report that the emperor was wounded was
orlóv never gave such a dinner as ours will be!”
or make out anything of what was happening: there in the smoke men of
or of the necessity of rebuilding factories and workshops. so the first
or prince vasíli. forty thousand serfs and millions of rubles! i know
or two in his head but dozens, some only beginning to form themselves,
or whether some other thought flitted across his dying brain, at any
or you as having been at all insulted, and as a man older than you, my
ostralitz. in the large drawing room which had become the commander
other.”
other, awkwardly, like a child at a dancing lesson.
other before the service was concluded. pierre paid no more attention
other fare, was splendid, yet he could not feel quite at ease till the
other had ridden up to him.
other lady visitors were farther down. at the other end sat the count,
other officer; he’ll say: ‘go and find out what’s there.’ there
other officers. perhaps i ought not to have spoken before them, but i am
others...”
others.”
others and even from herself, the stronger it grew. “o god,” she
others and, in shirt sleeves and breeches, went glass in hand to the
others appreciated prince hippolyte’s social tact in so agreeably
other’s hands, kissing them and pulling them away, and again began
other soldiers. he stood looking about him, when suddenly he heard a
others, only now have i understood all the happiness of life. no, i
others. “well, you old sinner,” she went on, turning to the count
other virtues—love of his neighbor, and especially generosity.
otherwise. to tell them that she felt ashamed for herself and for them
other young ladies in begging natásha and nicholas, who were noted for
ought to be, now he fancied it was only something in his own eyes. his
ought to go straight to him and give the message dolgorúkov had ordered
ought to know where they are, and must find them, because...”
“oui, madame,” replied he, looking around him.
our aid,” said kutúzov.
our dear count vrbna, goes to him for orders.”
our enemies! hurrah!” he exclaimed in his dashing, old, hussar’s
our fine speeches and in his rude and savage way throws himself on the
our hands! no, we mustn’t forget suvórov and his rule—not to put
our hearts are united by indissoluble bonds, my heart rebels against
our infantry were stationed there, and at the farthest point the
our members as much as possible to reform their hearts, to purify and
our men had begun firing. they were still firing, not at the cavalry
“our men have been wasting time.”
our officers.”
our officers and men at austerlitz. one had saved a standard, another
our order can bestow it will render you, my dear sir. you are going to
our people...”
our present, depraved world. no one now loves virtue; it seems like
    * ours.
ourselves.”
ourselves, dear prince,” said the little princess (of course, in
ourselves, were growing up and dying with no idea of god and truth
“ours,” kissing his finger tips.
‘our sovereign, the emperor,’ as they say at official dinners,”
our thoughts to the second, bonaparte. but as it turns out, just at
our troops had descended and from whence came the sounds of firing.
our troops were known to him as far as they could be known to anyone
our turn next.”
out.
out:
out about him.
out accidently.”
out and the sabers whizzed as they were drawn from their scabbards.
out a notebook, hurriedly scribbled something in pencil, tore out the
out as a post horse, but still i must have a talk with you, catiche, a
out everyone has been enraptured by her? they say she is amazingly
out from behind the clouds, and the clear sound of the solitary shot
out her cambric handkerchief she began wiping her husband’s waistcoat.
out his notebook and, leaning on the cannon, sketched a plan of the
out in front of a platoon of grenadiers before whom lay a naked man. two
out like cords. “you are mad, i tell you. i won’t allow it.
outlines. dressed as she used to be in petersburg society, it was still
out. mack loses a whole army, the archduke ferdinand and the archduke
out of countenance himself or making others uncomfortable, but as
out of hearing. another musket missed fire but flashed in the pan.
out of it. they could not understand that i have not the necessary
out of this position; that here was the toulon that would lift him from
out over the fire, and not waiting for an answer he gave a grunt and
outposts today and it is impossible to say where his chief forces are
outright.
outside his uniform.
out skirmishers. he had felt perfectly sure that there were other troops
out. the fences and gates were new and solid; two fire pumps and a
out there... both playing the hero... ah, vasíli ignátovich...
out the stinging and tormenting thoughts that confused his mind. “this
out until, at the first pause, the guests rise with a rustle of dresses
out whether she was considering what he had just said or whether she was
over a fire brigade of bonaparte’s, that will be another story and
over.” and after stumbling a few staggering steps right up to the
over, and come back in an hour and tell me in his presence: yes or no.
over,” anna pávlovna continued. “the sovereigns will not be able to
over beamed with irrepressible delight.) “it’s in the emperor’s
overcome a certain secret sorrow that has been in my heart ever since
overflowed with animation and impulsiveness. to be an enthusiast had
“overflowing with amiability. his position has not turned his head
overflow with sick, and famine is everywhere. twice the marauders even
over his shoulder.
over his shoulder, as when rostóv had seen him on the eve of the battle
over his spectacles, and then again resuming his walk, muttering
over. it will be a tremendous banquet.”
overtaken by the enemy and fighting rearguard actions only as far as
overtaking the battalions that continued to advance, he stopped
over, the adjutant he had seen the previous day ceremoniously informed
over the battlefield had given final orders to strengthen the batteries
over the enns, and then guessed that the card that came first to hand
over their heads, unstrapping their overcoats and drawing the sleeves on
over the squadron. rostóv raised his saber, ready to strike, but at
owed him money! what baseness! what meanness! i know you understand
owing to the terrible uproar and the necessity for concentration and
own about the facts he was recounting. for some time he engrossed the
own breast, the husband standing by and gazing tenderly at her and the
owner of one of the largest fortunes in russia, i am much amused to
own eyes she comforted the count, and decided that at dinner and till
own ideas tonight, but must yield himself up entirely to the will of
pace.
paces, and nicholas could clearly distinguish every detail of his
pacing angrily about and snorting. the old prince felt as though he
painful to him at this moment of sorrow; besides, what can i say to him
painstaking effect that had been in it before; but she did not yet sing
palace in a manner agreeable to yourself, and in so far as circumstances
pale, and added, “look at it, young man.”
pale and his jaw trembled, shivering feverishly. he was placed on
pale and then blushing.
pale face and glittering eyes.
pale, now blushed and strained every nerve to overhear what nicholas
pale on seeing her father-in-law.
pale, with compressed lips and feverishly glittering eyes.
pale, with quivering lips, pierre snatched the copy.
pallid and quivered.
“papa, i have come on a matter of business. i was nearly forgetting. i
“papa! pa-pa!” he called after him, sobbing, “forgive me!” and
“papa,” said his beautiful daughter in the same tone as before,
“papa, we shall be late,” said princess hélène, turning her
papa, which natásha, and which pétya. everyone shouted, talked, and
paper and her hand moved rapidly over it. this is the reply she wrote,
paper. he looked gloomily in rostóv’s face and said: “i am witing
papers and it was the first time he had heard villeneuve’s name.
papers and still taking no notice of the special messenger.
parade. however, i will let you know.”
parade... i am the first to apologize, you know me!... he was very
paralyzed his will.
pardon. as soon as rostóv heard them, an enormous load of doubt
“pardon me! a snuffbox with the emperor’s portrait is a reward but
parents who have petted their children from babyhood, but which prince
paris. it was not calculation that guided her (she did not even for a
part. anna pávlovna schérer on the contrary, despite her forty years,
part from his horse, and at last sprang down and called to his orderly.
particular emphasis as if in it lay the gist of the matter.
particularly addicted), he regarded even this not as a defect but as a
particularly agreeable before going away. besides this he was
particularly calm and absent-minded way, which inspired the respect of
particularly discontented and out of temper. whether he was in a bad
particularly on the word possible... “as po-o-ossible,” he ended,
particularly striking among all these drunken voices by its sober
     particularly victorious.”
particularly vivid, humiliating, and shameful was the recollection of
parties, wearing a dress such as was then fashionable, cut very low at
part in it, but also by the joyful expression on the faces of soldiers,
partly because of the depressing memories associated with bald hills,
partly because prince andrew did not always feel equal to bearing with
partner’s hand firmly, threw back his head, and advanced his foot,
part of his legs; he had on a kind of necklace above which rose a high
part of his mind her image rose in all its womanly beauty.
party at which pierre had to be present unless he wished to spoil
passed his time very gaily. after a short period of adapting himself
passed in step before the emperors and their suites at a bold, brisk
passed out by a back door, but returned to their places one after the
passed, the pávlograd division was ordered to advance. in wischau
passing bagratión and racing one another they rushed in an irregular
passing behind one of the lines of a regiment of foot guards he heard a
passing between the companies that had been eating porridge and drinking
passing, but before he had finished his greeting there was a general
passing by kutúzov’s carriage and the exhausted saddle horses of
passing it across hélène’s back. hélène stooped forward to make
passionately and tenderly, and old mary ivánovna, who had grown fond of
passionately, at which she laughed; at the other could be heard the
passionately fond of the boy, and princess mary often deprived herself
passionately once more to enjoy that dissipation he was so accustomed to
passionately repents. i will do all i can to arrange the match between
passion but in your own heart. the source of blessedness is not without
passion,” said the latter.
pass the three officers quite easily, but zherkóv, pushing nesvítski
past the company, and overtook the carriage, still keeping time to the
past the ladies into the little drawing room. with quick steps he went
pathetic smile, as though she too knew that count rostóv deserved this
path of virtue,” said the mason.
patronage at the dancers.
patroness. she added that her majesty had deigned to show baron funke
patted his favorite, rostóv, on the shoulder.
paul had exiled him to his country estate had lived there continuously
paul was a market village where a fair was held on st. peter’s day,
pause after this mot to give time for its due appreciation. “the
paused. “i am going because the life i am leading here does not suit
pause, “she told him she loved another.”
pausing. “the only question is what will come of the meeting between
pávlograd commander. the commanders met with polite bows but with
pávlovna.
pávlovna again touched pierre’s sleeve, saying: “i hope you won’t
pávlovna: “educate this bear for me! he has been staying with me
pávlovna had had a cough for some days. she was, as she said, suffering
pávlovna, looking up pensively.
pávlovna’s, an unacknowledged sense of the guilt of that desire
pávlovna’s drawing room he considered an important step up in the
pávlovna, shaking her little shriveled finger at him.
pávlovna’s hand and for some reason drawing it downwards. “arrange
pávlovna’s hand, and screwing up his eyes scanned the whole company.
pávlovna’s usual pink notes with an invitation to which was added:
pávlovna’s voice, “i see you are all right there.”
pávlovna’s was the first he had attended in russia. he knew that all
pávlovna’s words and looks when she spoke to him about his house,
pávlovna threatened him on behalf of “our dear vyazmítinov,” and
pay. i can tell you for myself...”
paying off the debts and undertaking new activities with serf labor,
payments had been diminished by a third, their obligatory manorial work
peace.”
peace. the old man was beside himself: moved the chair on which he was
pearls on their bare shoulders, looked at themselves in the brilliantly
peasant, or a woman with a baby, has no rest day or night and i give
peculiar form of beauty. everyone brightened at the sight of this pretty
peculiarities of his reserved nature, borís had managed during his
peculiarly deliberate steps. this feeling of disdain was heightened
peculiar to pregnant women. it was evident that her eyes did not see
pensions and the same amount for asylums; 150,000 alimony was sent to
people and starting to join the army. you should have seen the state of
“people are always too clever with their eldest children and try to
people—businessmen, relations, and acquaintances alike—were all
people dancing, iogel with natásha, his pride and his best pupil, were
people do understand him. he is such a lofty, heavenly soul!”
people,” he went on, turning to anna pávlovna, “he ever was a hero,
people show to everyone when they are happy.
people were in one of the inner rooms, not considering it necessary to
perception befitting a man of the world, he indicated by a movement of
perfection of manner. if he ever thought of hélène, it was just of
perfect one’s self. and to attain this end, we have the light called
perform! prussia has always declared that buonaparte is invincible, and
perhaps because it was hard for him, hungry as he was, to look on at
“perhaps,” coldly and angrily replied dólokhov, glancing at sónya,
perhaps dying, while meeting my remorse with some forced bravado!”
perhaps i may...”
“perhaps later on i may tell you, my dear boy, that if i had not been
perhaps, see and take part in the first russian encounter with the
“perhaps the count did not ask for me,” said pierre when he reached
“perhaps we’d really better not wake him,” he said hesitating.
permission here in hospital, that i may not have to play the part of a
“permit me, princess, to know what is necessary and what is not
perseverance, but only the knowledge of how to get on with those who can
personage, a position in the army which seemed to him most attractive.
personage he was referring to.
personal interview was refused, and instead of the sovereign, prince
personally it would be a pleasure to hand over the supreme command
persons, among them the elderly lady and anna pávlovna, did however
person she happened to look at she was in love with for that moment.
petersburg.
petersburg, and had been expelled from there for riotous conduct and
petersburg and staying at his house. with apparent absent-mindedness,
petersburg. anna mikháylovna, with her tear-worn but pleasant face,
petersburg. but now this head was swaying helplessly with the uneven
petersburg earlier or later, or whether he secured accommodation at this
petersburg. hand this to count willarski” (he took out his notebook
petersburg. he could not imagine how he could speak to her now. he
petersburg. it is high time for you to get away from these terrible
petersburg—no one knows who will inherit his immense fortune, pierre
petersburg on the tenth of august, and her son, who had remained in
petersburg society was assembled there: people differing widely in age
petersburg to ascertain what moscow was thinking about austerlitz.
petersburg to procure an appointment in the guards for her only son.
petisenfans, allay cushay dormir!” he exclaimed, imitating his russian
“pétrusha has come with papers from your father,” whispered the
pétya.
pétya. besides that, he sent greetings to monsieur schelling, madame
pétya, clinging to his legs, kept shouting, “and me too!”
pétya! good man!” cried he, addressing pierre.
pétya in, closed again. a sound of laughter came from behind it.
pétya paced the room in silence for a time.
pétya, pacing the room with large, resolute strides. “now i’m very
“pétya, you’re a stupid!” said natásha.
pe vell. and ve must discuss it as little as po-o-ossible”... he dwelt
philosophizing voice with pleasure.
physically at that moment, there was a weight on his chest and he could
physical things, and the fourth a combination of these. now and then
pick up the glove himself and to pass round the doctors who were not
piercingly. seeing prince andrew she leaned out from behind the apron
pierre.
pierre.
pierre.
pierre.
pierre.
pierre.
pierre, after all, had not managed to choose a career for himself in
pierre and himself was in the room, and addressed her in a tone of
pierre and there were lines of pain on his face and a shamefaced smile.
pierre, as in a dream, saw several men standing before him, wearing
pierre at the age of ten had been sent abroad with an abbé as tutor,
pierre began describing what he had done on his estates, trying as far
pierre blushed, as he always did when it was mentioned, and said
pierre clutched his temples, and turning round went into the forest,
pierre considered.
pierre could not and did not wish to break this silence.
pierre could not go on. he gulped and turned away.
pierre could not make out what it was all about, and still less what
pierre did not catch what they were saying, but knew they were talking
pierre did not understand a word, but the conviction that all this had
pierre drank one glass after another, looking from under his brows at
pierre dropped his eyes, lifted them again, and wished once more to see
pierre felt confused and wished to avoid that look, but the bright old
pierre felt himself far poorer than when his father had made him
pierre felt that he was the center of it all, and this both pleased and
pierre felt uncomfortable and even depressed in his friend’s company
pierre flushed and, hurriedly putting his legs down from the bed, bent
pierre, from joy, agitation, and embarrassment, was not in a state to
pierre gave her an inquiring look. she kissed the young man on his
pierre gave no answer, for he neither heard nor saw anything. he had
pierre gradually began to recover himself and looked about at the room
pierre had already long been feeling in himself that refreshing source
pierre had been educated abroad, and this reception at anna
pierre had come just at dinnertime and was sitting awkwardly in the
pierre had met in petersburg society. in the president’s chair sat a
pierre had none of the practical persistence that would have enabled him
pierre had of late rarely seen his wife alone. both in petersburg and in
pierre had taken part in tying a policeman to a bear. he had now been
pierre, hardly restraining his sobs, began running toward dólokhov and
pierre, having made up his mind to obey his monitress implicitly, moved
pierre heard her say:
pierre. he went up to him, took his hand (a thing he never used to do),
pierre in his preoccupation and absent-mindedness had not recognized
pierre in his secret soul agreed with the steward that it would be
pierre, in reply, sincerely agreed with her as to hélène’s
pierre, “i said at the time and before anyone else” (she insisted
pierre. it seemed to him that more than half an hour had elapsed.
pierre knew very well what a hieroglyph was, but dared not speak. he
pierre leaped up from the sofa and rushed staggering toward her.
pierre listened to the colonel’s speech and nodded approvingly.
pierre listened with swelling heart, gazing into the mason’s face with
pierre looked at her over his spectacles.
pierre looked at his friend and, noticing that he did not like the
pierre looked over his spectacles with naïve surprise, now at him and
pierre looked questioningly at anna mikháylovna to see what he was to
pierre looked silently and inquiringly at him over his spectacles.
pierre looked silently and searchingly into prince andrew’s face,
pierre murmured something unintelligible, and continued to look round as
“pierre, my dear, come here. i think he will not be out of place in a
pierre, not knowing whom to answer, looked at them all and smiled. his
pierre, on unexpectedly becoming count bezúkhov and a rich man, felt
pierre paused, seeking a reply.
pierre, perplexed, looked round with his shortsighted eyes without
pierre quickly took out his purse and watch, but could not manage for
pierre reaching the house first went into prince andrew’s study like
pierre recalled, counting them on his fingers, he felt already in his
pierre remained gloomily silent, answering in monosyllables and
pierre rose to help him.
pierre rubbed his forehead.
pierre said nothing; he looked fixedly at his friend with surprise. he
pierre sat down with his little partner. natásha was perfectly happy;
pierre sat opposite dólokhov and nicholas rostóv. as usual, he ate and
pierre sat up on the sofa, with his legs tucked under him.
pierre saw that borís wished to change the subject, and being of the
pierre’s direction at a slight rustle made by the latter. “why have
pierre seized the crossbeam, tugged, and wrenched the oak frame out with
pierre’s eyes.
pierre’s eyes with it and tied it in a knot behind, catching some
pierre’s hand to show that there was no need to ask the question. he
“pierre!” she said.
pierre shook his head and arms as if attacked by mosquitoes or bees.
pierre sighed, rose submissively, emptied his glass, and, waiting till
pierre’s legitimation? do you understand that in consideration of the
pierre smiled, but his smile showed that he knew it was not the story
pierre smiled in his good-natured way as if afraid for his companion’s
pierre’s mind was in such a confused state that the word “stroke”
pierre’s outburst anna pávlovna, despite her social experience, was
pierre’s remarks, rose and made a sign to his wife that it was time to
pierre stood with his arms hanging down and legs apart, before his
pierre. the estates he had not before visited were each more picturesque
pierre, the one who had behaved so improperly at anna pávlovna’s
pierre threw off his cloak and entered the first room, in which were the
pierre took his feet off the table, stood up, and lay down on a bed that
pierre took off his coat, waistcoat, and left boot according to the
pierre took off his spectacles, which made his face seem different and
pierre took them off, and his eyes, besides the strange look eyes have
pierre tried several times to speak, but, on one hand, prince vasíli
pierre turned his whole body, making the sofa creak. he lifted his eager
pierre turned over heavily on the ottoman and opened his mouth, but
pierre understood nothing of all this and coloring shyly looked in
pierre was about to reply, but prince vasíli interrupted him.
pierre was evident. she kept an anxious watch on him when he approached
pierre was one of those people who, in spite of an appearance of what
pierre, was only busy causing him annoyance.
pierre was silent.
pierre was sitting in the drawing room where shinshín had engaged him,
pierre was staying at prince vasíli kurágin’s and sharing the
pierre was still afraid that this officer might inadvertently say
pierre was struck by the modesty of the small though clean house after
pierre was ungainly. stout, about the average height, broad, with huge
pierre was very fond of.
pierre well knew this large room divided by columns and an arch, its
pierre well remembered this small circular drawing room with its mirrors
pierre went in at the door, stepping on the soft carpet, and noticed
pierre went out.
pierre went with rapid steps to the door and suddenly came face to
pierre. “what of it? it’s the truth!” and he himself smiled his
pierre, who had been growing more and more agitated as he listened to
pierre who had been regarded with patronizing condescension when he was
pierre who has inherited all the property and has besides been
pierre, whose preoccupied, absent-minded, and massive figure was a very
pierre, who was lagging behind, to follow. though he did not see why it
pierre who was under such obligations to him (“but never mind that”)
pierre wished to say something, looked at her with eyes whose strange
pierre wished to say this to the mason, but did not dare to. the
pierre, with a gentle smile of pity and remorse, his arms and legs
pierre, with downcast eyes, drank out of his glass without looking at
pierre, without knowing why, was having his enormous petersburg house
pilgrimage, of holy friendship, of the eternal architect of the
pillows one at a time and shaking them.
pinch of snuff.
pineapple ice. before the ices, champagne was served round. the band
pistols, and at the word thwee begin to advance.
pitied. she has no one, no one. to tell the truth, i don’t need her,
pity, and for their sake i should like to liberate the serfs. you
pity for me. why is it?”
pity me. yet i was once at home, strong, happy, and loved.” he sighed
pity’s sake, leave this helpless youth who, after all, was the son of
place and everything waiting for him in the archives department! isn’t
place and that he might now be lying, recovering or dying, alone among
place and without answering drew out a handkerchief. blood was flowing
placed a chair for her.
placed them on the window sill, though it was already quite light.
place him on a stretcher that had been brought. the soldier groaned.
places and met in certain habitual groups. a minority of those present
places. then the strains of the count’s household band were replaced
place,” thought pierre. “it’s even certain that i should have done
place! we passed close to the park and saw two deer... and what a
placing the bottle on the window sill where he could reach it easily,
plain enough as it is.”
plainly that there are not many wives with husbands such as you who
plainness of speech, uttering the word amant as casually as any other
plain that she understood nothing and was so frightened that her
plaiting slippers out of cloth selvedges. he looked up at the opening
plan chimerical.
plan of a flanking movement.
plan perfectly worthless. weyrother met all objections with a firm and
“plans!” repeated prince andrew ironically. “my plans?” he said,
plans to kutúzov’s quarters where the council of war was to be
player, in spite of the burden of his equipment, rushed out to the front
players, or peered at the now cold face of dólokhov and tried to read
playing a viennese waltz on the clavichord, while a fourth, lying on
playing chess. berg held a smoking pipe between his knees. borís, in
playing with the ball of worsted as a kitten should.
play. involuntarily he felt a joyful agitation at the thought of the
“plea...” began dólokhov, but could not at first pronounce the
pleasant face and resonant though not loud voice, attracted everyone’s
pleasant smile, as if it were obvious to him that his success must
pleasant smile—his eyelids drooping more than half over his old eyes,
“please, andrew, for my sake!...”
“please be quick,” he said.
“please come and visit us... you know my brave boy... been together
“please come to tea. the prince will be out in a moment,” came the
pleased!” and he held out his hand to the captain.
“please, denísov, let me lend you some: i have some, you know,”
pleased faces, for they knew that under no other management could they
pleased to take me as an aide-de-camp....”
pleased with.
“please have a look at it”—and kutúzov with an ironical smile
“please,” he uttered with an effort.
please make way!”
“please place your money on the cards or i may get muddled in the
“please, vasíli dmítrich,” natásha was saying, “do come!”
“please, your excellency, for god’s sake!” he kept saying,
pleasure and listened to the conversation of his two neighbors, whom he
pleasure at the sound of the singing and the sight of the dancing
pleasure of deceiving me, if it really were true. yes, if it were true,
pleasures than allow himself to be seen in a shabby equipage or appear
pleasure that for the first time since his arrival prince andrew was
pleasure to herself and to all around her. “i have brought my work,”
“plenty of time, your excellency,” muttered kutúzov in the midst of
pocket and that’s quite simple and is no one else’s business.”
pocket of his riding breeches, with his eyebrows lifted and his mouth
point.”
point. ask denísov whether it is not out of the question for a cadet to
point... come, how are you?” asked rostóv.
pointed boot then fashionable, touched the groin of the bobtailed bay
pointing to nicholas, “his friend borís has become an officer, and
pointing to the fields, he spoke of the improvements he was making in
pointing to the flying soldiers; but at that instant, as if to punish
point where the french pickets had been standing that evening.
police tried to interfere, and what did the young men do? they tied
polished shining cannon that quivered on the gun carriages and with
politeness and affected sympathy of which indifference and even irony
politeness and to start conversation, they asked him a few questions
politeness modestly placed himself at the disposal of the circle in
political events.
political news. it became particularly animated toward the end of the
pomaded hair, perfumed, and in a new uniform, looking just as smart as
pondered. a husband, a man, a strong dominant and strangely attractive
pondered. sometimes he staked a large sum, but dólokhov refused to
ponderous steps up to her sister-in-law.
poor amélie’s happiness, she loves him so passionately, and so
poorer than the poorest beggar. a thousand thanks, dear friend, for the
poor resources i have for entertaining a woman used to the best society.
porch. his landlord, who in a waistcoat and a pointed cap, pitchfork in
porch. prince andrew got out of the carriage, helped his little wife to
porter. he had no lambskin cap on his head, nor had he a loaded whip
portfolio.
portfolio, and changed her grip.
portfolio she held in her hand. “all i know is that his real will is
portfolio were the only sounds audible, but it was evident that if
portmanteau into the vehicle, “we are to move on still farther. the
portrait (evidently by the hand of the artist belonging to the estate)
position. he kept closing his eyes and then again looking at the fire,
position. he made some notes on two points, intending to mention them to
position is now a terrible one,” continued anna mikháylovna, sadly,
position, it was now necessary to attack in order to cut a way through
position now, peter nikoláevich...”
position of that insignificant individual was such as could certainly
position of the army reached him as he went along, and the appearance of
positions and withdrawn in his presence. together with túshin, stepping
position with his eyes shut. pierre looked at him and had not time
possessed of a helen. “but no doubt it always is and must be so!”
possessed. pierre was one of those who are only strong when they feel
possessor of the finest fortune in russia. it is rumored that prince
possibility of active brotherly love among men, which joseph alexéevich
possibility of anyone seeing her without being enchanted. the aunt
possible. and i,” continued pierre, “shot dólokhov because i
possible. god preserve us from that terrible misfortune!
possible. his conversation was always sprinkled with wittily original,
possible. kutúzov himself with all his transport took the road to
posted on a rather steep incline which dominated the french position.
posted, two men appeared on horse back. they were an aide-de-camp
posting date: january 10, 2009 [ebook #2600]
postmaster’s book. bazdéev had been one of the best-known freemasons
post of commander in chief as a reward for his victory, does not give up
“postulant,” to the accompaniment of various knockings with
potëmkins or suvórovs left to oppose him; but he was also convinced
pouch was slung. he had an officer’s sword in his hand. the soldier
poured drops from a medicine bottle into a wineglass half full of water.
pour le roi de prusse!”
pour vous. *(2) only a hobbledehoy could amuse himself in this
powdered footmen, in livery with buckled shoes and smart stockings,
powder,” said prince andrew banteringly yet tenderly.
powder smoke and stopped in despair. everything seemed lost. but at that
power.”
power.”
powerful nation like russia—barbaric as she is said to be—to place
practical woman that she was, had even managed by favor with army
pranced up and down in one place like a goat and shrieked piercingly.
prancing horse had splashed mud over some foot soldiers.
prater... true, we have no prater here...”
pratzen heights.
pratzen, interrupted by such frequent reports of cannon that sometimes
pratzen, which was full of troops of all kinds.
prayed that the daily interview might pass off well.
prayer. so, count, there never is any negligence in my company, and
prearranged sentence.
precedes a battle and had spent that happy day in inactivity, was all
preening its plumage and became motionless.
pregnant,” said prince andrew, following every movement of his
prejudices, and equality of citizenship, and all these ideas napoleon
premeditation prince vasíli took the first opportunity to gain his
preoccupied manner. he beckoned to one of his white adjutants and asked
preoccupied that only in bed was he able to be by himself. he had to
preoccupied, yet meekly christian look which never left her face, anna
preparations for war lay in the fact that nicholas would not hear of
preparation swept over all the troops.
prepare a circular, memorandum, or report, skillfully, pointedly, and
prepared by long and diligent self-purification, not everyone can hope
prepared to continue, but just then anna pávlovna, who had kept a
prepare her sister-in-law, and every time began to cry. unobservant as
preparing tea. he brought in a boiling samovar. when everything was
presence and particularly distinguished himself.”
presence, i will teach you to behave yourself.”
present bivouac another fortnight there will not be a healthy man left
presented he was as little able as his father to change his opinion. he
present emperor—more than once in paris, and tells me he never met a
present i am free and am all right. only i haven’t the least idea what
present, suddenly pushed forward with a scared and angry look and wanted
preserved all that was good in it—equality of citizenship and freedom
preserve his gravity.
president of the council of war. weyrother evidently felt himself to be
pressed him still harder with proofs of the impossibility and above all
pressed two fingers more and more rigidly to his cap, as if in this
pressing the hands of prince andrew and borís. “you know i should
pressure lay his only hope of salvation.
presumptuous lieutenant who had prevented his finishing what he had to
pretending to do something real. prince andrew gaily bore with his
pretending to sleep, the sounds his nose emitted during the reading that
pretense of helping, was in everyone’s way.
pretext that her aunt wished to hear him.
pretext. the fact is he has come to see count cyril vladímirovich,
pretty face.
pretty young princesses gorchakóv met suitors there and were married
preussisch-eylau.
prevented her from going on with it.
pricking its ears at the noise and looking at the lights. the shouting
pricking its ears at the sound of shots just as it had done on the
pride enough to see it? if she has no pride for herself she might at
pride. “that lawsuit taught me much. when i want to see one of those
priests; “all we relatives have been in such anxiety. this young
prince.
prince.
prince.”
prince. and god only knows where your man peter is,” said the other
prince andrew.
prince andrew always became specially keen when he had to guide a young
prince andrew and his sister, hand in hand, kissed one another, and
prince andrew began to reply and to state his own plan, which might
prince andrew, beginning to understand that his news of the battle
prince andrew bowed his head in token of having understood from the
prince andrew caught him by the hand.
prince andrew considered possible contingencies and formed new projects
prince andrew could not understand.
prince andrew did not see how and by whom it was replaced, but the
prince andrew during the battle had been in attendance on the austrian
prince andrew, evidently confused. “i know that out of a million
prince andrew expressed his ideas so clearly and distinctly that it was
prince andrew felt that either the actions of kutúzov’s army
prince andrew followed her with a courteous but sad expression.
prince andrew frowned again, expressing his annoyance with whoever was
prince andrew galloped off to execute the order.
prince andrew gave him a look, but said nothing and went away. he felt
prince andrew gazed with anxious curiosity at that impassive face
prince andrew glanced again at the artillery officer’s small figure.
prince andrew glanced at kutúzov’s face only a foot distant from him
prince andrew got up and went on tiptoe up to the little bed, wineglass
prince andrew grew more and more animated. his eyes glittered feverishly
prince andrew had gone out into the hall, and, turning his shoulders
prince andrew, having reached the front line, rode along it. our front
prince andrew, his face distorted with fury, rode up to him and raised
prince andrew. “i build a house and lay out a garden, and you build
prince andrew kept looking with an amused smile from pierre to the
prince andrew knew how to take his stand so that they respected and even
prince andrew looked anna pávlovna straight in the face with a
prince andrew looked at his sister. in the dim shadow of the curtain her
prince andrew looked inquiringly at him and gave no reply.
prince andrew looked kindly at him, yet his glance—friendly and
prince andrew looked sternly at her and an expression of anger suddenly
prince andrew made use of boguchárovo, began building and spent most of
prince andrew moved toward the door from whence voices were heard.
prince andrew nodded to him. he still looked ahead while prince andrew
prince andrew only shrugged his shoulders at pierre’s childish words.
prince andrew, recalling his father’s letter. “yes, we have gained
prince andrew remained at bald hills as usual during his father’s
prince andrew remembered nothing more: he lost consciousness from the
prince andrew replied. then followed other questions just as simple:
prince andrew riding up to the officer.
prince andrew rose, shrugged his shoulders, and walked about the room.
prince andrew said nothing to túshin. they were both so busy as to seem
prince andrew saw that the officer was in that state of senseless,
prince andrew’s calm manner of treating everybody, his extraordinary
prince andrew screwed up his eyes and turned away. pierre, who from
prince andrew, seeing that his father insisted, began—at first
prince andrew shouted, “brothers! all’s lost!” and at this as if
prince andrew shrugged his shoulders.
prince andrew sighed and broke the seal of another envelope. it was
prince andrew sighed and made no reply.
prince andrew’s joyous feeling was considerably weakened as he
prince andrew smiled.
prince andrew smiled as he looked at his sister, as we smile at those we
prince andrew smiled involuntarily as he looked at the artillery officer
prince andrew smiled ironically.
prince andrew spoke so earnestly that pierre could not help thinking
prince andrew stayed at brünn with bilíbin, a russian acquaintance of
prince andrew stood right in front of kutúzov but the expression of
prince andrew stopped short.
prince andrew. they had known each other previously in petersburg, but
prince andrew told his driver to stop, and asked a soldier in what
prince andrew understood that this was said of him and that it was
prince andrew was as glad to find the boy like that, as if he had
prince andrew was on duty that day and in constant attendance on the
prince andrew was one of those rare staff officers whose chief interest
prince andrew was silent, but the princess noticed the ironical and
prince andrew was surveying the position, was the easiest and most
prince andrew was to leave next evening. the old prince, not altering
prince andrew went again to his wife and sat waiting in the room next
prince andrew went out.
prince andrew went up to the child and felt him. he was burning hot.
prince andrew when he drove up to the palace felt even more vigorous and
prince andrew, who had also been brought forward before the emperor’s
prince andrew, who had evidently wished to tone down the awkwardness of
prince andrew with one word, one argument, 
prince andrew without lifting his eyes rode hastily away from the
“prince auersperg is on this, on our side of the river, and is
prince bagratión and túshin looked with equal intentness at
prince bagratión, distinguished by his schön grabern affair and by
prince bagratión, having reached the highest point of our right flank,
prince bagratión looked at túshin, evidently reluctant to show
prince bagratión proposed to dolgorúkov to send to inquire of the
prince bagratión rode an officer of the suite, the prince’s personal
prince bagratión screwed up his eyes, looked round, and, seeing the
prince bagratión to begin the council. at last bagratión’s orderly
prince bolkónski sat down in his usual place in the corner of the sofa
prince bolkónski’s household felt that their life had not been real
prince bolkónski surveyed anatole.
prince, but could not get it quite right.)
prince dolgorúkov ceased to listen to him and gazed absent-mindedly not
prince dolgorúkov to the advanced post of the french army.
prince hippolyte approached the little princess and, bending his face
prince hippolyte, having brought the workbag, joined the circle and
prince hippolyte hurriedly put on his cloak, which in the latest fashion
“prince hippolyte kurágin—charming young fellow; m.
prince hippolyte was lolling in a lounge chair with his legs over its
prince hippolyte, who had been gazing at the vicomte for some time
prince? how priceless are those last moments! it can make things no
“prince, humanum est errare, * but...” replied the doctor,
“prince, i did not ask you here. go, please go!” and he jumped up
prince interrupted her.
prince kurágin about me. i only wanted to ask because i fear the guards
prince never directly asked himself that question, knowing beforehand
prince nicholas frowned, but said nothing.
prince, one window frame was removed in each room as soon as the larks
prince repnín!” and he spurred his horse and galloped away.
prince repnín named lieutenant sukhtélen.
prince, she prepared to listen.
prince’s household. general in chief prince nicholas andréevich
prince’s question as to how she felt.
princess and prince vasíli, recovering themselves, followed her. a few
princess, and stared fixedly at her through his eyeglass.
princess anna mikháylovna intervened in the conversation, evidently
princess anxious and inquiring, the nurse encouraging. everyone in the
princess’ beautiful eyes with all their former calm radiance were
“princess, come here!” he shouted.
“princess drubetskáya to see prince vasíli sergéevich,” he called
“princesse, au revoir,” cried he, stumbling with his tongue as well
princesses, sat in a corner knitting a stocking. pierre had never been
princesses spent most of their time, he greeted the ladies, two of whom
princesses was coming to take her turn at watching. “let us go.”
princess’ face. she took it quickly and bent her head over it.
princess felt this; they still thought that if a blue ribbon were placed
princess had been crying after dinner and had spoken of her forebodings
princess’ hair. it was evident that he could be silent in this way for
princess’ hand.
princess hélène, prince vasíli’s daughter, and the little princess
princess, his cousin, at moscow, concerning dólokhov’s intimacy with
princess. i am at your command.’ yes, he is a fine fellow and a very
princess, i hold to the principle that a maiden has a full right to
“princess, i must warn you,” she added, lowering her voice and
princess. (in accordance with lise’s and prince andrew’s wishes they
princess kurágina, a portly imposing woman who had once been handsome,
princess, looking at anna mikháylovna as at a stranger.
princess mary.
princess mary admitted to one another that the angel’s face reminded
princess mary but were looking within... into herself... at something
princess mary could not lift her head, she was weeping.
princess mary could not understand the boldness of her brother’s
princess mary did not listen to the end, but continuing her train of
princess mary, evidently intimidated and confused that her opinion
princess mary grew quite unconscious of her face and coiffure. the
princess mary had greatly changed since 1805.
princess mary had long since put aside her book: she sat silent, her
princess mary knelt down before her and hid her face in the folds of her
princess mary, little as he seemed to value her, was unthinkable to
princess mary looked at her brother in surprise. she did not understand
princess mary looked at them in silence. she could not understand it. at
princess mary rose and moved to the door, then stopped and said:
princess mary sat alone in her room listening to the sounds in the
princess mary shrugged her shoulders but took the glass submissively
princess mary shuddered; her nurse, putting down the stocking she was
princess mary sighed, and having crossed herself went down, thinking
princess mary’s self-esteem would be wounded and his point (not to
princess mary, then sat thinking for a while with that expression of
princess mary threw a shawl over her head and ran to meet the newcomer.
princess mary was first surprised and then aghast at this question.
princess mary was left alone. she did not comply with lise’s request,
princess mary was sitting on the sofa in her room, holding the weeping
princess mary was still standing by the cot, gently rocking the baby.
princess mary went back to her room with the sad, scared expression that
princess mary went to the door of the study with special trepidation.
princess mary with a gay smile, as if inviting her to join in a laugh at
“princess, my dear, there’s someone driving up the avenue!” she
princess never saw the beautiful expression of her own eyes—the look
princess on hearing the news.
princess’ room, a carriage containing pierre (who had been sent for)
princess rose. “it’s now two o’clock and you dine at four. there
princess suddenly, her pretty face all at once distorted by a tearful
princess, turning away and continuing to read. but julie did not flatter
princess was not unwell, but had such an overpowering fear of the prince
princess went in with the drink she had prepared according to
princess with a pleased smile, as to an intimate acquaintance.
princess with the expression women assume when they suppose they are
princess, with the long waist and hair plastered down like a doll’s,
prince, stepping on his heels, paced up and down his study and sent
prince’s things in my bedroom,” said he to the servant who was
prince to get up, tíkhon came to call the young prince to his father.
prince told me to ask,’ and come and tell me her answer.”
prince vasíli.
prince vasíli always spoke languidly, like an actor repeating a stale
prince vasíli and anatole had separate rooms assigned to them.
prince vasíli and that son of his to me? prince vasíli is a shallow
prince vasíli and the eldest princess were sitting close together
prince vasíli and the generals, had the benefit of the diplomat.
“prince vasíli arrived in moscow yesterday. i hear he has come on
prince vasíli arrived that evening. he was met in the avenue by
prince vasíli, as he entered. “i know all about it, and i can tell
prince vasíli a third time. “how absent-minded you are, my dear
prince vasíli became thoughtful and frowned. anna mikháylovna saw that
prince vasíli bent his head and spread out his hands.
prince vasíli came next. he staggered to the sofa on which pierre was
prince vasíli did everything to get pierre to marry his daughter. had
prince vasíli did not reply, though, with the quickness of memory and
prince vasíli frowned, twisting his mouth, his cheeks quivered and his
prince vasíli gave pierre a significant look.
prince vasíli had come to the conclusion that it was necessary to throw
prince vasíli had to settle matters with pierre, who, it is true, had
prince vasíli kept the promise he had given to princess drubetskáya
prince vasíli looked questioningly at the princess, but could not make
prince vasíli passed by, seeming not to hear the ladies, and sat down
prince vasíli readily adopted her tone and the little princess also
prince vasíli rose.
prince vasíli rose. “oh!” said he with reproach and surprise,
prince vasíli said no more and his cheeks began to twitch nervously,
prince vasíli’s arm and led him to his study. as soon as they were
prince vasíli saw that pierre knew this. he suddenly muttered
prince vasíli saw the princess off. she held a handkerchief to her eyes
prince vasíli’s daughter, the beautiful hélène, came to take her
prince vasíli’s face so out of keeping with his dignity that pierre
prince vasíli’s last words. then rising, he suddenly went up to his
prince vasíli smiled.
prince vasíli smiled, and pierre noticed that everyone was smiling at
“prince vasíli’s son, he, and a certain dólokhov have, it is said,
prince vasíli stared at her and at borís questioningly and perplexed.
prince vasíli was not a man who deliberately thought out his plans.
prince vasíli was seated in an easy chair in his familiar attitude,
prince vasíli, who pretended to want to know this in order to settle a
prince vasíli wished to obtain this post for his son, but others were
prince vasíli, with one leg thrown high over the other and a snuffbox
prince was at home, and showed him into a clean little anteroom.
“prince, what i have said is all there is in my heart. i thank you for
principal guests. he was just going to take it when dólokhov, leaning
principals nor their seconds suffered for it. but the story of the duel,
prisoners.”
private and had not seen fit to recognize him. but now that kutúzov had
privilege of admiring her beautiful figure and shapely shoulders,
prizes his freedom which he needs for so many other things. when he
probably he did not, for in general he thought very little—but his
“probably,” said prince andrew moving toward the outer door.
probably think it easy to gain victories!” he thought. his eyes
probably to strengthen the front line. the smoke of the first shot had
problems in higher mathematics, turning snuffboxes on a lathe, working
proceeded to his study.
proceeding as usual. denísov, who had been losing at cards all night,
produce at the same intervals and hold for the same time, but which
produced an effect she glanced at anna pávlovna, at once adopted just
produced on sónya, felt for the first time the sorrowful side of the
profited by their toil to lead a profligate life. that is what you have
progress. would you believe it, i have literally not a penny and don’t
projects for peace, a secret peace concluded separately.”
promener,” * she used to say. often seeing the success she had with
prominent gray eyes. then she shook her head and glanced up at the icons
promised? nothing! and what little they have promised they will not
promised not to forget him, distinguished him above the other adjutants,
promise of rising in his diplomatic career. he was still a young man but
promise to prince andrew was of no account, because before he gave it
promotion.
promotion...”
promotion, nicholas said that he kissed his father’s and mother’s
promotion to the rank of major, and rostóv, who had already drunk
pronounced the mason in a stern and tremulous voice.
proofs of nikólenka’s virtues. how strange, how extraordinary, how
proper, and regular motion. but amid these cares her anxiety about
properly. hélène answered with a smile that she too had missed it.
proper posts. borís had been quartered, and had marched all the
propose is the only thing possible.”
proposition to you in his pupil’s—i mean, his son’s—name. do you
prospect of spending an evening with a poor invalid is not too terrible,
prostrated himself before the gates of the temple. and really, the
protégé, but prince dolgorúkov politely and firmly pressing his hand
proudly at his son.
proverb says,” remarked shinshín, moving his pipe to the other side
prussia, and had just returned from there as a special messenger. he had
prussian army, hélène had suddenly found it necessary to see him.
prussians without giving them time to finish the parade they had begun,
przebyszéwski and his corps had laid down their arms. other columns
przebyszéwski’s and langeron’s columns which had already gone down
przebyszéwski, with respectful but dignified politeness, held his
p.s. let me have news of your brother and his charming little wife.
public to appreciate his skill.
puckering up his face though smiling, and showing his short strong
pulling him by the chain and trying to set him at the others.
pulling it or being pushed by it he did not know, but rushed along at
pultúsk to petersburg returns bringing our appointment as commander in
punishments were to be admonitory and not corporal, and hospitals,
purified, thou wilt gain wisdom. look at your life, my dear sir.
purity, and not the serfs’ backs and foreheads, which, beat and shave
purple-faced general wait respectfully while captain prince andrew, for
purple face, reporting something.
purposely dropped a handkerchief in front of him and stood looking
purse.
purse and, drawing its rings aside with his small, white, turned-up
purse that sank into the sofa. “as for us, count, we get along on our
purse undah the pillow,” he said, and went out to the quartermaster.
pursued by the french army of a hundred thousand men under the command
pushed back in the sitting room where the count and márya dmítrievna
pushed the guns and wagons themselves. whips cracked, hoofs slipped,
pushing back his chair, he rose from the table.
put a little aside and to send something to my father,” he went on,
put it in a carriage, and set off with it to visit some actresses! the
put it off. perhaps god will help me to find a way to prepare him!...
put questions and gave brief replies about things they knew ought to
putting them down. when they’ve been put down, the war with buonaparte
putting the nightshirt over his dried-up old body and gray-haired chest.
puzzled the devil himself! when you get there you’ll find out what
qualifications for it—the kind of good-natured, fussy shallowness
qualities. he was always hearing such words as: “with your remarkable
quarreled with hélène, mon cher? you are under a delusion,” said
quarreled with her brother about him. she insisted that he was a bad
quartermaster for the money.”
quartermaster’s presence.
quarter of an hour between two fires.”
quarters and riding up to captain timókhin who was walking in front.
quarters near braunau, where they hoped to receive boots and clothes and
quarters torches and candles were burning and no one slept. the old
queer,” he added after a pause, “that you should have suspected
“qu’ est-ce qu’il chante?” * asked a frenchman.
questioned prince andrew about the details of his interview with the
question for her to refuse him. and therefore nicholas’ first feeling
question for whose sake he came (though no one spoke of it) was soon
question he noticed that it should not have been put.
question him. the man announced that the tsar had been driven in a
questioning him about political affairs and news. he seemed to listen
question—one so important that he took no notice of what went
questions of health, sometimes in russian and sometimes in very bad but
questions put to him. he was bespattered with mud and had a pitiful,
questions that might be put to him and the answers he would give. he
quick.
quickly as possible.
quickly. prince bagratión, uttering his words with an oriental accent,
quickly roused himself with a feeling of joy, as if learning afresh that
quickly turned away, a scarcely perceptible smile flitting over his
quick or the enemy will bring up his guns to use grapeshot.”
quick-witted, nor ready or eloquent in conversation, but he had the
quiet and peace. thank god!...”
quiet authority, “you wish to insult me, and i am ready to agree with
quietly and humorously how he had known that doll mimi when she was
quietly and said in a whisper: “please walk in.”
quilt. the eyes and face of the sick man showed impatience. he made an
quite astonishing. how did you get things settled? i couldn’t possibly
“quite avare, your excellency,” suddenly shouted the colonel,
quite certain. ah! it is very dreadful...”
quite close at hand, and a voice of naïve terror barely two steps from
quite heard.
quite mistaken if you reckon me or my mother among such people. we are
quite opposite reputations. some, a minority, acknowledged him to be
quite remember how, but don’t you remember that it could all be
“quite right,” said the englishman.
quite sincerely tried to make her look pretty. she was so plain that
quite true; he had been indebted to her father for the first steps in
“quite well? all right then, sit down.” he took the exercise book
quits... it can’t be!... and why is he doing this to me?” rostóv
quivering in his breast and a tickling in his nose, and tears dimmed his
quoting one of his own mots, releasing the wrinkles on his forehead, and
radiantly on her beautiful face. pierre gazed at her with rapturous,
rage, “who are you? are you in command here? eh? i am commander here,
railings. he looked back laughing to the cossack who stood a few
raised. he remained stubbornly silent, gazing at weyrother’s face,
raise him. but as soon as he thought of what he should say, he felt that
raising him.
raising his eyebrows.
raising his soft foot backwards, bowing his perspiring head, smiling
ran ahead on tiptoe and knocked at a door.
ran forward on each such occasion, fearing to miss a single word of the
ran forward shading his eyes with his small hand to look at the french.
range and wipe them out?” these were the questions each man of the
rank and importance, who was the first to arrive at her reception. anna
rank (for he did nothing), that prince vasíli had procured for him,
rank—“i thank you for myself and for our two dear ones whose name
ranks.
ranks; anatole was in the army somewhere in the provinces; prince andrew
ranks in this regiment.”
ranks were returning from the attack. rostóv got out of their way,
ran rapidly over the wide space, but he only saw that the hitherto
ran up, begging a little fire for the infantry.
rapidity. he again vividly recalled the details of the battle, no longer
rapidly.
rapidly adding up the total of rostóv’s debt, breaking the chalk as
rapidly and indistinctly. “you thought!... rascals! blackguards!...
rapid retreat. austrian troops that had escaped capture at ulm and had
rapid, self-confident, familiar tone. “here is my second son; please
rarely done of late. it was a grand farewell dinner, as he and denísov
rarely left her and which made her plain, sickly face yet plainer. she
rascality....”
rasgulyáy—the coachman ipátka knows—and look up the gypsy
rate he glanced at the refractory arm, at pierre’s terror-stricken
rather confine ourselves to studying those sublime rules which our
rather of death, as the saying is. ‘albanians!’ and ‘devils!’
rather round shoulders and glanced at novosíltsev who was near him, as
rather short, as if surprised that anyone should not know him.
rather than of what the generals were disputing about.
ratify it; but it is only a trick. march on, destroy the russian
rattle on the bridge as if nuts were being spilt, and the hussar nearest
rays of gentle light shone from her large, timid eyes. those eyes lit
reached bagratión, the weighty tread of the mass of men marching in
reached the bushes. behind these were some russian sharpshooters.
reached to his very heels, and, stumbling in it, ran out into the porch
reached. wheels creak on their axles as the cogs engage one another and
reaching the large house near the horse guards’ barracks, in which
read a congratulation on his future son-in-law and on his daughter’s
readily and rapidly like a man who has not talked for a long time. his
readiness to fall in love and an expectation of happiness.
reading confirmation in anna mikháylovna’s face.
reading the letter. he went on tiptoe to the nursery door and opened it.
reading them aloud. bagratión bowed his head and listened:
reading. then milorádovich looked round significantly at the other
“read this if you like, father,” said the princess, blushing still
read this in tíkhon’s face and in that of prince vasíli’s valet,
ready, the stranger opened his eyes, moved to the table, filled a
ready to embrace the countess at the appropriate moment.
reality again presented itself. he got up without saying a word and went
realize because the fear was so much the stronger feeling. the prince
realized as he read that book: the joy, hitherto unknown to him,
realized that something dreadful had happened to his regiment, and the
really all the same to me when my son’s fate is at stake.” the
really...” but he did not say what “it really” was. “for the
really good society” consisted of the fascinating hélène, forsaken
“really i don’t care about that, i don’t care at all,” said
“really, i don’t yet know. i don’t like either the one or the
“really, papa, i believe prince bagratión worried himself less before
“really, truly!” answered natásha, pushing in a crisp lock that had
real state of french public opinion.”
reappeared.
rearguard all the freshness of atmosphere of the french army, which was
reason for rejoicing, they looked at each other with joyful delight and
reasoning contained in the mason’s words, or believed as a child
reason of her friend’s sorrow, “i’m sure véra has said something
reason, or shot a post-boy’s horse with a pistol. that expression
reason, ran back and disappeared from the outskirts, and russian
reasons for buonaparte’s hatred of him.
reawakening. he was afraid of any want of clearness, any weakness, in
rebuking her for her fall.
recalcitrant cavalry colonel, his own dignity as a general, and above
recalled all this as childishness he had left immeasurably behind.
recalled thousands of such hints from prince vasíli and others, and was
recalling bilíbin’s words.
receipt, he left at the end of november, without taking leave of any of
received.
received all petersburg, proud of her unapproachability and beauty. so
received and read the then famous rescript of the emperor alexander
received as a savior.”
received. a thanksgiving service was arranged, kutúzov was awarded
received by the emperor. had you heard?”
received him with distinction and special marks of favor, explaining to
received pierre with a shade of melancholy, evidently relating to the
received was shown him. a strange lady, the one who had been talking to
receive that science it is necessary to purify and renew one’s inner
receiving from all sides declarations of the people’s loyalty, that
receiving it. this gratitude reminded him of how much more he might do
reception.
reception hall: michael ivánovich, mademoiselle bourienne, princess
reception room if he wished to see him. borís thanked him and went to
reciprocated this antipathy, but it was overpowered by his contempt
reckoning.”
recognized as legitimate; so that he is now count bezúkhov and
recognized him and stopped to listen to what he was saying. dólokhov
recognized his lamented and adored monarch.
recognized the tsar and watched his approach. when he was within twenty
recognizes his high vocation and will be true to it. that is the one
recollection of how he was put in the sleigh or of the first three
recollections.” prince vasíli sighed. “yes, yes, my boy. and my
recommended to the empress) and at the same time to console him, so she
recounting his military exploits (prince andrew could not endure
recover.”
recovered, and rostóv became very friendly with him during his
recross to the other. at last our enemy, buxhöwden, catches us and
recruiting. none of them had yet seen the manifesto, but they all knew
recruitment so as to avoid active service. the old prince and his son
recruits were being enrolled in the villages, and from the seat of
red hands; he did not know, as the saying is, how to enter a drawing
red patches appeared on princess mary’s face and she was silent as if
red. several battalions of soldiers, in their shirt sleeves despite
reduced to tears.
referred to in that drawing room as “a man of great merit” (un homme
“refill my pipe for that one!” and then, scattering sparks from it,
refined french in which our grandfathers not only spoke but thought, and
reflected on theirs.
reflections. better die a thousand times than risk receiving an unkind
reform by marrying him to prince andrew’s sister.
refusal with his head and hand and by that gesture rostóv instantly
refuse iogel and asked sónya to dance. denísov sat down by the old
refusing to let her see them off. the diplomatist preserved a mournful
regarded all these little adjutants on the staff of whom the newcomer
regard him—but you want to cure him from love of him. and he does not
regarding all arguments as nonsense in comparison with that smile.
regarding him with a smile of approbation.
regard to this project of marriage for me, i will tell you, dear sweet
regenerate, purify, and elevate me. but you don’t understand it.”
regeneration, and return to life.
regimental commander and major ekonómov had stopped beside a bridge,
regimental commander cooling down a little. “leave indeed.... one says
regimental commander hung his head, silently shrugged his shoulders, and
regimental commander, overtaking the third company on its way to its
regimental commander was nicknamed king of hearts).
regiment, and bogdánich knows it. oh, we do prize it, old fellow! and
regiment but was not liked; rostóv especially detested him and was
regiment had been broken up. all he knew was that at the commencement
regiment had just the appearance of any russian regiment preparing for
regiment—instead of the straggling, disorderly crowd it had been on
regiment next to no time, my lad, you’re here today and tomorrow
regiment, saying he was not such a fool as to slave at the front when he
regiments, both cavalry and infantry, were by no means ready for the
regiments form bands and scour the countryside and put everything
regiment. the faces of these young people, especially those who were
regiment, they listen intently, look about, and eagerly ask concerning
regiment was much surprised at the commander in chief’s order to throw
regret. drawing rooms, gossip, balls, vanity, and triviality—these are
regret her words. but she went on hurriedly:
regrettable delusion.”
regularity in his household was carried to the highest point of
regular motion as a result of all that activity.
regular order.
reinforce the right flank. the officer of the suite ventured to remark
reins and started of his own accord.
rejects all knowledge that does not come from him; and the less we seek
relating to nikólenka, did not venture to ask any questions at dinner,
relating to the condition of the troops on their arrival, and the
relays.
religion?”
reluctantly, but gradually with more and more animation, and from habit
relying on reason only? what art thou? you are young, you are rich, you
remained alone with him for a long time.
remained in reserve and nicholas rostóv spent that day in a dull and
remained on the farther side of the bridge facing the enemy, who could
remaining in moscow, and only awaited the termination of denísov’s
remaining strength. he raised his pistol and aimed.
remains of sheds, chairs, tables, wheels, tubs, and everything that they
remains of supper. a footman, thinking no one saw him, was drinking on
remain stationary in face of an enemy eight times as strong as itself.
remarked. “well, sit down: let’s have a talk.”
remarks at him, though without looking at him.
remarks. the old count rose once more, glanced at a note lying beside
remarks which seemed to him clever while they formed in his mind became
remark to him, pointing to the gallant Ápsherons.
remembered it three months before, when the count had sent him to
remember everything?” said natásha, with an expressive gesture,
“remember, for you everything depends on this.”
remember how we and nicholas, all three of us, talked in the sitting
remember nikólenka too, i remember him well,” she said. “but i
“remember that you will answer for the consequences,” said prince
remorse, humiliations, sufferings, outbursts of pride, fear, and
rendered, and i supplied them with a doctor, a hospital, and an asylum
renounced your former convictions—do you believe in god?”
repeated by others from various sides and all became silent.
repeated from the opening words of the manifesto:
repeated. “i should be glad enough to fall asleep, so it’s not my
repeat his question.
repeating in a low voice the same words several times over.
repeating the terms of the bet, addressing himself particularly to
repeating the terms of the wager to him in english.
repeating to himself at each alternate step, “left... left...
repellent. yet in this very repugnance to all his circumstances pierre
repented and added: “i am glad; really, dear, i am very glad.”
replace some chessmen that were falling. he was about to embrace his
replied.
replied, “and it is that he would be merciful to him and would allow
replied, and the four simply looked at one another. she lingered in the
replied borís, betraying neither annoyance at the prince’s brusque
replied prince vasíli.
replied that it would be more than enough for him and that he gave his
replied: “yes, yes, i agree,” and with a beaming, childlike smile,
reply.
reply.
reply to his look, and went still faster along the passage.
reply—which he would not have received, for the princess was unable to
report, and began deliberately to examine the whole battlefield extended
reported to him, and then joined the adjutants listening to what the
reports from our scouts. here are two letters from count nostitz and
reports one after another, and a third.
reports that prince auersperg was defending vienna?” he said.
report was heard, bagratión looked round and shouted, “hurrah!”
reprehensible, looked round with a blush. it seemed to him that everyone
representative but one of the great century, and that it is his own
represented all that was left of that whole regiment. impelled by the
represented as a brilliant victory over the french, and so the
reprimanding and reproaching him. túshin gave no orders, and,
reproached and disputed with each other.
reproached her for yielding to a man without being married. mademoiselle
reproached him for not having stayed at the palace, and offered him
reproachfully at the count who had presented it to him. someone
repulsed, he had lost more than half his men. he said the attack
request.
request that he would take no part in the matter, rostóv agreed to be
required papers. kutúzov and the austrian member of the hofkriegsrath
rescue. pierre had managed to start a conversation with the abbé about
resembling his master in manners and looks, who was accompanying him
reserve gun carriage, the wounded were carried away, and the four guns
reserve tomorrow,” he thought. “i’ll ask leave to go to the front,
reserve units were able to join up, and the fight was at an end. the
resolute in the discharge of duty, ran out and touching pierre lightly
resolutely took the salver with both hands and looked sternly and
resolute self-will, “he is wicked and heartless. there now, i like
resolution. can it be that i have none?”
resolved not to be the first to break silence, if she had to wait till
resolved to go away next day and leave a letter informing her of his
resounded on the planks of the bridge, and the squadron, officers in
resounded. the column moved forward without knowing where and unable,
resounding voice, apparently to preclude the possibility of not being
respect and honor you, but all the same remember that the future belongs
respected and feared her.
respectfully.
respectfully bowed head, seemed also to be waiting. the silence lasted
respectfully when the military governor, having stayed about half an
respect, he had decided that it would be a good thing to set fire to the
responsibility. but circumstances are sometimes too strong for us,
responsibility of that deed.”
rest, and then...”
rested on prince andrew’s face.
resting, and to halt facing vienna with znaim to his rear, and if he
restrained animation as he stood sipping tea from a delicate chinese
restraining her angry tears.
restraining his tears of pity for the emperor, he rode on in utter
rest, went in to dinner. he was seated in the place of honor between
result from it—no longer seemed to be in the future but in the past.
resumed her duties as hostess and continued to listen and watch, ready
resumed its former cold, artificial expression. she returned to the
“retire! all to retire!” he shouted from a distance.
retreat after a battle have lost it is what we say; and according to
retreated as a disorderly crowd. one soldier, in his fear, uttered the
retreating against their will. a few minutes after the emperor had
retreating forces.
retreating to our frontier—which do today.’
retreat to the dip by echelons.” so he reasoned.... all the time
     return.”
returned), and, forcing open a loosely closed latch, set the damask
returned, and over the bottle of wine conversation between the three
returned from a long journey on which he had spent dozens of years, had
returned from the council, tired and exhausted but eager and proud
returned from them dragging sheep, fowls, hay, and bulging sacks. at
returned home just before dinner. as soon as he entered he noticed and
returned to moscow and went straight to her rich relations, the
returned to petersburg quite crestfallen.
returning from his journey through south russia in the happiest state
returning his smile.
returning to his hobby; “tell me how the germans have taught you to
returning to the town. the commander in chief made a sign that the
return the holy image.
return to her the whole evening.
reverence and was beyond question.
revoir! ”—and she left the hall.
revolution, which has become more terrible than ever in the person of
rhetor, after a moment’s pause.
rhetor said, “to bring yourself to regard it not as a dreaded foe, but
rhetor’s instructions. the mason drew the shirt back from pierre’s
rhetor, though it aroused his curiosity, did not seem to him essential,
rhetor went away, leaving him to solitary meditation. “it must be so,
ribbons.
rich?”
richest of the officers now that he had received his money, bought it.
rich old man. but before leaving home and undertaking these new affairs,
rich youths, officers and cadets, who had galloped past him on their
ride and especially by the sound of the bullets.
rider’s leg. blood was flowing from his head; he struggled but could
rid himself of them he closed his eyes.
riding a fine bobtailed horse, and a civilian—an accountant who had
riding alone with three hussars into that mysterious and dangerous misty
riding, and sometimes, when he came within six paces of them, the
riding away, say to czartorýski: “what a terrible thing war is: what
riding over it trained a gun on him and fired several shots. the
rid them of the bourbons and because they saw that he was a great
right.
right across the skull. having said this he glanced at natásha.
right!” and his head once more sank to his horse’s neck. all at once
right and what’s good must be judged by one who knows all, but not by
right flank and drive it into the bohemian mountains according to plan,
right hand, which was lying palm downwards, a wax taper had been thrust
right—he did not know. “but was it really not possible for kutúzov
right, it is advantageous to attack the enemy’s latter wing especially
right light.... in my opinion perpetual peace is possible but—i do not
rightly supposes that matters have already gone too far. i think it will
right. selfish, vain, stupid, trivial in everything—that’s what
right—serve him. nicholas bolkónski’s son need not serve under
right, shouting and firing were again heard. flashes of shot gleamed in
rights of man, is sentenced to...” but before pierre—who at that
right sounded oftener and nearer. as soon as túshin with his guns,
right to fire when they liked as they approached the barrier. dólokhov
right! twenty-one rubles,” he said, pointing to the figure twenty-one
ring, and zherkóv, uneasily glancing at them all, and prince andrew,
ring, cried from the window: “come here; part the bets!” this was
ringing, deliberate voice. “i ask an opportunity to atone for my fault
risen and was going toward his room.
rising in his soul. dólokhov, denísov, and rostóv were now sitting
rite which everyone expected of him, and that he was therefore bound
river flowed was formed by the rising ground only half a mile away.
river we burn the bridges to separate ourselves from our enemy, who at
rivulet flowed, the soul-stirring rolling and crackling of musketry was
road. bagratión’s exhausted and hungry detachment, which alone
road which gleamed white in the mist would have been safer because it
rode, not hoping to find anyone but merely to ease his conscience. when
rode past the limbers to the farthest cannon.
rode side by side in front, at full gallop. one in a black uniform with
rode with our regiment all the time, so that we had every comfort and
rolled softly over the straw beneath the windows, anna mikháylovna,
rolling them up. márya dmítrievna always spoke in russian.
roof lit up by the sun? no one knows, but one wants to know. you fear
rook—a handsome horse despite its game leg—had the happy air of a
room.
room, addressed pierre.
room after supper? why, we settled how everything was to be. i don’t
room. all were silent.
room, almost all the company had assembled, and the conversation, guided
room, and looked round with a smile. she was, as always at evening
room and still less how to leave one; that is, how to say something
room and we shall have to go down, and you have not smartened yourself
room by which dolgorúkov had entered—a short man in civilian clothes
room. denísov silently watched lavrúshka’s movements, and when the
room, exclaiming and oh-ing and ah-ing.
room, grew silent and gazed with eyes full of curiosity or expectancy at
room,” he said.
room.... nicholas had been prepared for resistance, but had not at all
room. no one spoke and the only sounds heard were the clatter of knives
room, something flew out from a side door like a tornado and began
room. the countess reflected a moment and took a pinch from a gold
room. the old countess, waiting for the return of her husband and son,
room. the old man already knew everything. he was standing close to
room. the prince stood still; his lively glittering eyes from under
room, they still heard the laughter and merry voices trying to persuade
room to write to his father, to whom he wrote every day. in the corridor
room, where you will be ranged side by side with a court lackey and an
room with a look of alarm. between twelve and two o’clock, as the
room without a word. but at the door he stopped and then retraced his
room with rapid steps. now he seemed to see her in the early days of
room with the inkstand in her hand.
rose and with her heavy tread went up to the table. she took a sheet of
rose, by a glance inviting pierre, who sat opposite, to listen to what
rose from an ensign and became emperor. well, well, god grant it,” he
rose in alarm on seeing it.
“rostóv!”
rostóv.
rostóv.
rostóv.
rostóv, absorbed by his relations with bogdánich, had paused on the
rostóv and denísov drove away with the wounded dólokhov.
rostóv, and dólokhov—who was now again an officer in the semënov
rostóv and had not responded to his greeting. when the emperor’s
rostóv and most of the officers after the review.
rostóv, and sighing deeply he took rook, his horse, which stood resting
rostóv anticipated his horse’s movements and became more and more
rostóv as he continued to deal.
rostóv became thoughtful.
rostóv considered, and then went in the direction where they said he
rostóv could already see their faces and heard the command:
rostóv did not know or remember how he ran to his place and mounted.
rostóv did not listen to the soldier. he looked at the snowflakes
rostóv did not speak.
rostóv did not think what this call for stretchers meant; he ran on,
rostóv fancied he had seen before) rode up to the ditch, struck his
rostóv felt denísov’s gaze fixed on him, raised his eyes, and
(rostóv felt himself quite tiny and weak compared to these gigantic men
rostóv felt ill at ease. he tried, but failed, to find some joke with
rostóv felt that, under the influence of the warm rays of love, that
rostóv, flushing, drew dólokhov into the next room.
rostóv followed them. in front of him walked kutúzov’s groom leading
rostóv for his friendship to her fédya, often talked to him about her
rostóv from a distance saw with envy and remorse how von toll spoke
rostóv, growing red and pale alternately, looked first at one officer
rostóv had been ordered to look for kutúzov and the emperor near the
rostóv had just prepared a card, by bending the corner of which he
rostóv heard.
rostóv himself, his legs well back and his stomach drawn in and feeling
rostóv, his eyes avoiding denísov, began buttoning his coat, buckled
rostóv hurriedly put something on his feet, drew on his dressing gown,
rostóv laughed so loud and merrily that denísov, in his bedroom, felt
rostóv learned later that russian and austrian soldiers had been firing
rostóv let go of the horse and was about to ride on, when a wounded
rostóv looked at and listened listlessly to what passed before and
rostóv met sónya in the drawing room, he reddened. he did not know
rostóv noticed something new in dólokhov’s relations with sónya,
rostóv recalled at that moment a strange conversation he had once had
rostóv rode on at a footpace not knowing why or to whom he was now
rostóv, rubbing his eyes that seemed glued together, raised his
rostóv’s and back, and back again and again in an instant.
rostóv saw nothing but the hussars running all around him, their spurs
rostóv saw overhead the old familiar cornice with a bit of plaster
rostóv saw tears filling the emperor’s eyes and heard him, as he was
rostóv saw that it had been well considered by them. sónya had already
rostóv’s face. a gentle, mild light poured from them. then all at
rostóv’s feeling, there was a deathly stillness amid which was heard
rostóv’s horse was also getting restive: it pawed the frozen ground,
rostóv shrugged his shoulders as much as to say: “nor do i, but
rostóv smiled.
rostóv smilingly reassured the dragoon and gave him money.
rostóv spurred his horse, called to sergeant fédchenko and two other
rostóv’s share in dólokhov’s duel with bezúkhov was hushed up by
rostóv’s soul (it seemed to rostóv that he understood everything),
rostóv staked five rubles on a card and lost, staked again, and again
rostóv, standing in the front lines of kutúzov’s army which the tsar
rostóv, still looking round toward the fires and the shouts, rode with
rostóv stopped.
rostóv stopped his horse for a moment on a hillock to see what was
rostóv submitted. he let the eight hundred remain and laid down a seven
rostóvs, with whom she stayed when in the town and where her darling
rostóv thrust the purse under the pillow and shook the damp little hand
rostóv too, bending over his saddle, shouted “hurrah!” with all his
rostóv took the letter and, throwing the money on the sofa, put both
rostóv took the money and, mechanically arranging the old and new coins
rostóv took the money, avoiding telyánin’s eyes, and went out of the
rostóv took the purse in his hand, examined it and the money in it, and
rostóv turned his horse and galloped back. four more reports followed
rostóv was not far from the trumpeters, and with his keen sight had
rostóv was very happy in the love they showed him; but the first
rostóv waved his cap above his head like the german and cried laughing,
rostóv went on ahead to do what was asked, and to his great surprise
rostóv went to telyánin’s quarters.
rostóv, when their leave permits had been passed at the town gate and
rostóv, who had completely forgotten denísov, not wishing anyone to
rostóv, who had just celebrated his promotion to a cornetcy and bought
rostóv wiping his muddy hands on his breeches looked at his enemy and
rostóv with dólokhov and denísov stayed on at the club till late,
rostóv, without returning home, took a horse and rode there. there was
rosy, was sitting in an easy chair with her work in her hands, talking
rosy, with a dark little mustache, evidently rested and made sleeker by
round and clapping rostóv on the shoulder with his big hand.
round and galloped back to the place where he had seen the emperor, but
round and notices here a spindle that has stopped or there one that
round an open window. three others were romping with a young bear, one
round her head.
round his son’s neck, and without a word he began to sob like a child.
round márya dmítrievna, now on his toes, now on his heels; until,
round once more. the french had fallen behind, and just as he looked
round. prince andrew and the battalion were already within twenty paces
round-shouldered captain túshin, stumbling over the tail of the gun
round shoulders shuddered as if a cold shiver had run down them, how his
round sónya and natásha as the air does before a thunderstorm. sónya
round the company. he noticed the change in the little princess’
round the first man changed his run to a walk and, turning, shouted
round the table, the clatter of plates, knives, and glasses mingled with
round the two corners of the mouth; this, together with the resolute,
round with much animation and cheerfully nodded to his son as the latter
roused by activity, expected the best results from the new campaign,
roused, had begun to talk, and wanted to express what had brought him to
“rousseau’s contrat social,” said the vicomte with a tolerant
rows of faces so alike yet so different, holding its breath while the
rows of statues in niches) and looking significantly at the lady’s old
royalist emigrant.
rubbed his forehead as if to rid himself of all interest in what he
rubbing his bald head and angrily pulling back toward him the little
rubles at a time, to talk about not wishing to cringe to anybody and not
rubles a year? and,” he went on after a pause, “what will it be in
rubles, dólokhov lived with him and had placed himself on such a
rubles i don’t know what to do with, and she stands in her tattered
rug and began reading to him from a manuscript book an explanation of
ruin. wasn’t he my friend? wasn’t i fond of him? but it’s not his
rumored, the allowance of forage money to captains of companies would be
rum without taking it from my mouth, sitting outside the window on this
running.
running beside timókhin, killed a frenchman at close quarters and was
running? can they be coming at me? and why? to kill me? me whom everyone
running into sónya’s room and not finding her there, natásha ran to
running to the door and the noise of a chair falling over, and a girl
rushed out apparently beside herself with delight.
rushing at the cadet to restrain him.
rush to obey the summons. “send dmítri to me!”
russian.
russian and the austrian. the guards, just arrived from russia, spent
russian arms.
russian army. and i won’t—not even if bonaparte were here at
russian army found vent in anger at zherkóv’s untimely jest.
     russian army, i must say that your victory was not
russian army loots terribly—her army is destroyed, her capital
russian army! well, as i was saying,” he continued, recovering his
russian army will be fully equipped, and shall then, in conjunction with
russian bath. the movement of these wrinkles formed the principal play
russian general. the general shouted a demand that the cavalry should be
russian musketeer who had gone up to the picket line with an officer and
russian on which he wished to put a contemptuous emphasis.
russians fought, the only consequence of these actions was a yet more
russians from krems to znaim.
   russians! o’er all barriers on!
russian troops and their commander of the laurels they have been
russian troops moving down the valley to their left.
russian troops were crossing the river enns. at midday the russian
russian valor—what more could be wished for?”
russia’s glory were led to destruction. go, princess mary. go and tell
russia were settling near the fortress of braunau and burdening the
saber had tasted flesh and he had fallen exhausted, and so on. and so he
saber, he sank on the snow beside it. his left hand was bloody; he wiped
saber them... whom? the hussars... ah, the hussars with mustaches. along
saber which had caught in his cloak. it was an old-fashioned saber of
sabretache...”—“keep to the right, your honor, there are bushes
sacrament, allow him a moment’s peace! here, pierre, tell them your
sacrament. the dying man lay as lifeless and immovable as before. around
sacrificed everything for his sake!” she cried. “it’s splendid!
sacrificed myself. but only the base, the vile succeed! i know who has
sad and depressed. it was all so strange, so unlike what he had hoped.
saddle and touched up his horse to ride once more round his hussars. it
saddle, he galloped to the other flank of the squadron and shouted in
saddle sore which, coming after all my previous journeys, quite prevents
sadness, and this occurred every time she mentioned her illustrious
sad voice, as if saying: “very well, finish me off.”
said.
said.
said:
said a gunner, coming up to túshin.
said another.
said a tall, grizzly-haired staff captain, with enormous mustaches and
said bilíbin as he came out to meet prince andrew. “franz, put the
said dólokhov.
said he.
said he, bending down a finger.
said he, “but the health of our sovereign, that good, enchanting, and
said he, carrying away into the darkness a glowing stick.
said he. “now for trouble!” rostóv looked out of the window and
said her eyes. she was not surprised at his having come; she did
said, holding the casement and not closing it. “with lanterns. most
said, “how am i to stifle in my heart these temptations of the devil?
said in a tone of indifferent politeness:
said inquiringly.
said it, and they all felt awkward.
said little iogel coming up to nicholas. “look how many charming young
said nothing to borís and, evidently unable to suppress the thoughts
said, of a wife who was a celebrated beauty and of millions of money.
said one of the nursemaids to prince andrew who was sitting on a
said prince andrew, as he entered the study, rubbing his small white
said prince andrew when they had gone into the large room where the
said prince andrew who had not yet had time to eat anything.
said repnín.
said rostóv, blushing.
said rostóv in an imploring voice, “but i can’t apologize, by god i
said she.
said she in french, displaying her bag and addressing all present.
said she, uttering the word with peculiar assurance and unconcern, “i
said shinshín, laughing ironically and mixing the most ordinary russian
said: “that’s bad! go on, go on.”
said the countess. “but i am in great need of this sum.”
said the countess, indignant that they should have dared to treat this
said the countess smiling.
said the general, turning to an artillery officer. “have a little fun
said: “then i will go to my rooms. you will let me know when i can see
said the old man, “say so, my dear sir.” and he suddenly smiled, in
said the old soldier dismally to a comrade, “you’ll forget to
said the princess, ignoring his question. “now i know! yes; if i have
said the princess in a tone of entreaty.
said this some time after she had finished singing. while that untrained
said to be fleeing in great disorder. mind you gallop off to kórchevo
said to her, went to the looking glass and arranged her hair and scarf.
said, without noticing nicholas.
said without sitting down. “a person of very high standing in our
said yesterday... let him grow up with you.... please.”
said zherkóv.
saint, my angel,” she said with a sigh.
sake that the latter might say something he would afterwards regret.
saluting, and this sound rapidly came nearer along the whole extended
salver, glanced around in dismay, as though seeking help. but all eyes
same!”
same?”
same as usual,” and princess mary pale, frightened, and with downcast
same commanders. the sailor rarely cares to know the latitude in which
same expression, which seemed to say that he had a right to suppose
same firm pressure of the hand and the same quick, repeated bows. as
same.... is everything ready?” he added. “only tell me where to go
same mind he began explaining the advantages and disadvantages of the
same moment his kindly eyes grew moist with tears of joy and enthusiasm.
same!” pierre often indulged in reflections of this sort, nullifying
same question. “will papa be back soon?”
same sergeant major iván mítrich, the same company dog jack, and the
same speed, but they kept increasing their pace, so that some of the
same state of excitement as when she had slammed the door of her room.
same time at the emperor francis.
same time felt shy.
same to me!” he screamed in the same piercing tone as when parting
same way. when did it happen and what has happened? i am well and strong
same. you’ll be all right anywhere. but look here: give up visiting
sang the quartette, “the brook,” with which everyone was delighted.
sarcastic smile.
satchels, sabretaches, open portmanteaus, and dirty boots. two freshly
sat down again, smiling at the noise they had made and exchanging
sat down at her writing table, on which stood miniature portraits and
sat down languidly on the sofa: he felt it unpleasant to have dropped
sat facing bagratión and, as the very personification of moscow
sat in an armchair in her dressing jacket and nightcap and katie, sleepy
satisfaction.
satisfied with him?” he asked the regimental commander.
satisfied with the party. she replied in her usual simple manner that
sat playing patience with the old gentlewoman who lived in their house.
sat up and began wiping her eyes and explaining.
sat waiting for something, and again soldiers straggling from their
sausages and a bottle of wine.
saved. but he saw nothing. above him there was now nothing but the
save myself?” he thought. he rode on to the region where the greatest
saviour’s words, that it is easier for a camel to go through the
saw a rather short man. having evidently come from the light into the
saw—covered to the waist by a bright green quilt—the familiar,
saw denísov coming home. denísov was a small man with a red face,
saw friendly looks and heard friendly words. yesterday’s adjutant
saw his smile, which said nothing, unless perhaps, “opinions are
saw the beloved features that were so deeply engraved on his memory. the
saw them all and saw them in detail. she saw prince vasíli’s face,
saw with his own eyes brick buildings erected or in course of erection,
say.
say (as he has done before) that i’m in the dumps.”
say i’ll have his head off if everything is not here in a week.
saying.
saying, and sat plunged in thought. five minutes later, gently swaying
saying as he moved from the gun, when a strange, unfamiliar voice called
saying. “i have been an atheist,” answered pierre.
saying it right, i have drunk a good deal—but that is how i feel, and
saying.” prince andrew looked silently at pierre with an ironic smile.
saying something witty and stinging.
saying that he must prostrate himself at the gates of the temple.
saying that, on the contrary, she remembered him quite well. then
saying that the russian ladies are not equal to the french? one has to
saying this he again turned round, dropped his hands, took the bottle
say it.”
say something but could not. her brother had guessed right: the little
say that it is dull in my house again,” and she glanced at hélène.
say that there are only two sources of human vice—idleness and
say to the adjutant that borís felt uncomfortable. he turned away and
say—“yes, misfortune! call it what you please, i know that what
scabbard and flourishing it.
sca’cwow? call the quahtehmasteh,” he shouted to lavrúshka.
scarred and puffy face.
schérer.”
schérer. at the other end sat the younger and less important guests,
schérer, maid of honor and favorite of the empress márya fëdorovna.
schlappanitz and bellowitz which cover the enemy’s front. for this
schlappanitz and the thuerassa forest, avoiding the defiles of
schönbrunn, 25th brumaire, 1805,
“schon fleissig?” * said rostóv with the same gay brotherly smile
schön grabern affair, just as those who have taken part in a battle
schön grabern—and he would have found that easier. the committeemen
schoolboy called up before a large audience for an examination in which
schools,” he went on, crooking a finger, “education and so forth;
schoss, and his old nurse, and asked them to kiss for him “dear
“schubert, the colonel of the pávlograd hussars, is dining with us
science explaining the whole creation and man’s place in it. to
scoundrel is again at our heels!”
scoundrel? is that how you look at it? we don’t see it like that. and
“scoundrels! blackguards!” shrieked the old man, turning his face
scratch from one paragraph to another with his hard nail.
scratch yourself.”
screams, continued.
screams kept repeating:
screwed up his eyes as if dazzled by the sun. he was entirely absorbed
screwing up his eyes and shaking with suppressed laughter, and unable
scrutinizing anatole closely and intently.
search of somebody and answered all her questions in monosyllables. he
seat.
seated them on the center sofa. the bigwigs, the most respected members
seats in the dining room, according to their rank and importance: the
    second epilogue
“second line... have you written it?” he continued dictating to the
seconds he stood not moving from the spot or realizing the situation.
second time. but pierre was so absorbed that he did not understand what
secretary of the russian embassy, do not feel any need in token of my
secretary rather than commander in the army. my removal from the army
secretly regretting this, saw only the dark side.
secret malevolence in their hearts.
sedate, and the naïveté of his youthful egotism was so obvious, that
seduced, and to whom her poor mother (sa pauvre mère) appeared, and
see his face. anna mikháylovna left him, and when she returned he was
“see how smart she’s made herself! oh, the devils!”
see how these nestlings are growing up,” and she pointed to the girls.
“see, i’m standing! see!” she said, but could not maintain herself
seeing anna mikháylovna and her son, prince vasíli dismissed the
seeing prince andrew stopped, hesitating on the threshold. he went into
seeing some men running toward him. “they will help me!” in front
seeing that smile, rostóv involuntarily smiled himself and felt a still
seeing the favor the emperor showed the prisoners, they now hastened to
seeing the fright of that small and frail but proud man when covered by
seeing them he kept thinking, “that may be the very standard with
seek nothing, be not anxious or envious. man’s future and thy own fate
seem.
seemed as though not the trumpeters were playing, but as if the army
seemed confused and blushed as if not knowing what to say.
seemed familiar to princess mary was saying something.
seemed impossible. “but perhaps they may do it!” for more than ten
seemed like a lifeless body, but as soon as he came up it became alive,
seemed loaded with a whole houseful of effects. a fine brindled cow with
seemed ready to lift its tail, jump down on its soft paws, and begin
seemed to ask. she noticed at once that something had happened to him.
seemed to be poles—all under the russian crown—but here they’re
seemed to be seeking something, and soldiers dragging doors, benches,
seemed to give way within him at this news. dólokhov was a suitable and
seemed to groan at the terrible impact.
seemed to have changed roles since the campaign of 1805. the old man,
seemed to hear left... left... left.
seemed to her that someone was there standing behind the screen in the
seemed to him all the interests that engrossed napoleon, so mean did his
seemed to him as though one of the soldiers near him hit him on the head
seemed to him like ants. in that world, the handsome drunkard number one
seemed to him that bogdánich rode so near in order to show him his
seemed to him that he had expected all this and even more. trying
seemed to him that it was a very long time ago, almost a day, since he
seemed to him that it was getting lighter. to the left he saw a sloping
seemed to me to have an excellent heart, and that is the quality i value
seemed to say. she saw her husband, but did not realize the significance
seemed to say: “yes, there’s nothing left for you and me but to sip
seemed to say. “you had not noticed that i am a woman? yes, i am a
seemed to wish, but to be unable, to diminish its effect.
seeming to grow suddenly smaller, and respectfully received the blessing
seem to him that everyone is afraid of him, and that must please him.
seen him in petersburg. i saw him just as i see you.... there he sat in
seen him since we acted together at the rumyántsovs’ theatricals. i
seen. prince andrew stopped and began examining the position.
seen the day before in the arms of her nurse’s daughter—at her
seen the light, come here? what do you seek from us? wisdom, virtue,
seen. the lines of that mouth were remarkably finely curved. the middle
seen through.
seen you. very glad! go back to your rooms, princess. go!” said
see the soldiers’ shaggy caps, distinguish the officers from the men,
see the true light, and that he, pierre, ought to aid, enlighten, and
see those who, judging by the sound of hoofs and voices, had ridden up
see whether he cannot attach you to himself or find a place for you
see whether it was firmly plaited, and grasping his by the hand. “the
see whether they were getting up.
see you,” he added, bowing his head.
seized by an unreasoning panic—it occurred to him that the child was
seized by terror lest he had already, in some way, bound himself to do
seized him at the thought of that dreadful step. a thousand times during
seize some horsecloths, though he had told him the russians were there.
seizing his father’s hand, he pressed it to his lips and burst into
seizing the most opportune moment for making use of people.
self, and so before one can know, it is necessary to believe and to
self-complacency than his did.) “well, he stormed at me, as the saying
self-complacent happiness that one sees on the face of a boy happily
self-confidence, while his body was thin and weak. his eyes, nose, and
self-confident.
self-confident french; then again, like a man weary but unflinching in
self-derision genuinely russian. bilíbin wrote that the obligation of
self-possession. if a man lacking in self-confidence remains dumb on
self-possession mingled at that moment in rostóv’s soul.
self-respect, but admit that the time and place are very badly chosen.
self-satisfied.
self-satisfied, youthful, and constant smile of animation, and by the
“sell me the missis,” said another soldier, addressing the german,
“sell us that horse!” denísov called out to the cossacks.
“semën! do you know the daniel cooper?”
semi-private, long-established jokes and amusing reminiscences, though
send his orderly staff officer, and later prince andrew also, to order
sensation of fear and respect which the old man inspired in all around
sensation of those terrible whistling sounds and of the corpses around
senseless cry, “cut off!” that is so terrible in battle, and that
sense of awe and veneration such as he had experienced in his boyhood at
sent an official to austria to seek for traces of his son, he ordered a
sent dólokhov the whole forty-three thousand rubles and received his
sentiments,” he seemed to be saying, “so much the worse for you!”
sent instead of our dear wintzingerode you would have captured the king
sent to moscow. the story told about him at count rostóv’s was true.
sent you. religious! i don’t interfere with anyone’s belief... i
separately through his thin compressed lips, “i will throw him down
“separate? very well, but only if you give me a fortune,” said
separating the living from the dead—lay between them. all were
separation! though i tell myself that half my life and half my happiness
sergeant in charge of the cannon which was to give the signal to fire
sergeant was carrying in a wooden bowl to an officer who sat on a log
‘sergéy’ he sobbed, ‘kuz-mí-ch,’ tears, and ‘from all
“sergéy kuzmích—from all sides—” he said, unbuttoning the top
sergéy kuzmích...’ poor vyazmítinov could not get any farther!
serious duel, and besides, drubetskóy, who says he is an old friend
serious expression. but the author himself took the verses and began
serious for an instant at the sight of her, but immediately smiling
seriousness of his stupid smile, could not but give him a moment’s
serious tone, “but the prince told me to ‘go and tell the colonel
servant.
servants say in a frightened whisper. “catch hold from underneath.
servants with lanterns were bustling about in the porch. the immense
served up was received with pleasure by all her visitors. the greatest
serve him. rostóv patted the horse’s neck and then his flank, and
service.”
service. a little behind them stood the two younger princesses holding
service, and he at once understood his role, letting his hostess make
service is to serve under him.”
service... it can’t be helped... one is sometimes a bit hasty on
service,” said the prince disdainfully. “why his son is coming i
service to place himself very advantageously. he was aide-de-camp to a
serving as a private. but the command of the extreme left flank had been
serving our tsar and our country, rejoicing in the successes and
set fire to the schön grabern village, delayed the french advance. the
set off to rejoin the army, not knowing where he would find it and
setting fire to schön grabern.
setting it on fire and the french batteries were now firing at them, no
setting, on a finely wrought silver chain.
settled down comfortably beside the fire.
settled. he came because of sónya. and sónya, though she would never
settled into three groups. one, chiefly masculine, had formed round
“settled!” replied borís.
set without whom my wife cannot exist, and those women.... if you only
seven he needed was lying uppermost, the first card in the pack. he had
seven in the morning but had not reached it by five in the afternoon.”
“seven new and three old imperials.”
seventeen of the forty men of the guns’ crews had been disabled, but
seven virtues, corresponding to the seven steps of solomon’s temple,
several dead men. one ball after another passed over as he approached
several of them were not separated from one another but merged into a
several of those present smiled at zherkóv’s words, expecting one of
several persons whom he did not know, giving him a whispered description
several soldiers fell.
several soldiers fell, and a second lieutenant who was holding the
several thousand rubles.
several thousand rubles quitrent received from pierre’s peasants,
several times in the course of the morning princess mary began trying to
several wounded men passed along the road, and words of abuse, screams,
severe gaze straight on pierre’s face.
severely. “you don’t wish to apologize, but, man, it’s not only to
severity changed, and he drew pierre’s hand downwards, made him sit
severity. the dance grew livelier and livelier. the other couples could
shading his eyes with his small hand.
shadow of the wall. pausing for a moment, pierre noticed several other
shako on the back of his head. he came up to the porch gloomily, hanging
shall not agree with you, and you do not really believe what you are
shall reproach my wife with anything, and i cannot reproach myself
shall think nothing of an extra seventy miles to come and see you at
“shall we have three cold dishes then?” asked the cook.
“shall we have time to change clothes?”
“shall you write to him?” she asked.
shame and anger choking him, had already leapt from his horse and run to
shameless, and he ignores her!”
share defeat and disgrace with kutúzov’s whole army.”
sharply, with a slight trembling of the lower jaw, “i can’t prevent
sharpshooters in front of our columns. the colonel at the head of the
sharpshooters showed themselves in the copse. it was timókhin’s
shawl had been adjusted he kept his arm around her for a long time, as
she added hurriedly. “no, don’t be angry, but promise! i have asked
she added, turning to her hostess. “you wrote that it was to be quite
she already had power over him, and between them there was no longer any
she always addressed him with a radiantly confiding smile meant for him
she approached him, saw his face, and something gave way within her. her
she became still more animated and chattered away giving him greetings
she began to smile and talk. he asked about mutual acquaintances, and
she began to tell of how at potsdam the impious bonaparte had stolen the
she brought into princess mary’s strenuous, mournful, and gloomy
she came up fearless and gay to kiss her hand. “i know she’s a scamp
she caught the young officer by his cuffs, and a look of solemnity and
she considered the resonance was best.
she continued, uniting them both in one glance. pierre did not look at
she could not lie either on her face or on her side. every position was
she crossed herself, kissed the icon, and handed it to andrew.
shed, and its tone was so sincere that he could not but listen.
she drew nearer to him. her face flushed.
she faltered. “you are on good terms with michael ilariónovich
she felt any symptoms of pregnancy. she laughed contemptuously and said
she felt guilty.
she forgot all fear of her father, went up to him, took his hand, and
she gave her companion an angry glance.
(she glanced at hélène and smiled at her.) “my dear hélène, be
she grew confused, glanced round, and, seeing the doll she had thrown
she had a fan in her hand that one of the ladies had given her to hold.
she had been married during the previous winter, and being pregnant did
she had determined not to tell her and persuaded her father to hide the
she had finished speaking to him, and now he continued to speak to
she had first entered the room—the smile of a perfectly beautiful
she had just vacated. “you have made the place warm, i must say,” he
she had learned it) she talked with her partner, fanning herself and
she had sacrificed so much. she could not refrain from weeping at these
she had seldom experienced, came upon her. she feared to look round, it
she had spoken to hippolyte in the drawing room and which was so plainly
she has a brother; i think you know him, he married lise meinen lately.
she hurriedly ascended the narrow dimly lit stone staircase, calling to
“she is not very well,” answered mademoiselle bourienne with
she knew of the duel and had come to speak about it. she waited till the
she knew so well), on the lock of gray hair that escaped from under the
she led him into the dark drawing room and pierre was glad no one could
“she let the hawk fly upward from her wide right sleeve,” went the
she looked at him inquiringly and with childlike reproach.
she looked round and seeing that her friend was not in the room ran to
she looked timidly at her brother.
shelters with merry chatter and laughter; around the fires sat others,
she moved toward anna pávlovna. hélène was so lovely that not only
she must be on the chest in the passage. the chest in the passage was
she must love him if she could so far forget herself! perhaps i might
“she needs rest,” said prince andrew with a frown. “don’t you,
she not only left her hair as it was, but did not even look in her
she ought to behave like mademoiselle bourienne, but could not.
she paused, as women always do, expecting something after they have
she pulled up her muslin sleeve and showed him a red scar on her long,
she pushed the little dog off her lap and smoothed her dress.
she rang for her maid and asked her to sleep in her room.
she rose and smoothed her hair, which was as usual so extremely smooth
she roused herself, and felt appalled at what she had been thinking, and
she rushed to sónya, hugged her, and began to cry.
“she said.... oh yes! she said, ‘girl,’ to the maid, ‘put on a
she said, trying to smile though tears were in her eyes.
she seemed that day to be more than ever kind and affectionate to
she seemed to promise to explain that necessity to him when he came on
she smiled as she uttered his pet name, “andrúsha.” it was
she suddenly came into his mind as she was at the moments when he had
she suddenly paused, smiling at her own impetuosity.
she thought: “if i seem not to notice he will think that i do not
she took a pair of pear-shaped ruby earrings from her huge reticule and,
she took his arm and with a happy face went with him into the adjoining
she took the liberty of inquiring whether it was long since anatole
she tried to pass anna mikháylovna, but the latter sprang so as to bar
she turned away and gave her hand to the count, who could hardly keep
she turned away from him and glanced at her younger brother, who was
she turned to go, but he stopped her with a gesture and took an uncut
she turned to his father. the conversation was general and animated,
she understood all the gravity of her friend’s trouble.
(she used the word “diplomat,” which was just then much in vogue
she used to have quarrels with the too indulgent count, that son who
she was dancing with a grown-up man, who had been abroad. she was
she was much altered. she was now plain rather than pretty. her cheeks
she was, natásha, who knew how sensitive her mother was to anything
she was no longer in the loose gown she generally wore in the morning,
she was not a fool to want to have children, and that she was not going
she was now saying she had talked of before, with tears.
“she was so tired that she has fallen asleep on the sofa in my room.
“she went. suddenly there was a great wind. the girl lost her hat and
“she will go to the country.”
she wished to and only refrained out of regard for his modesty.
she would say. what could all that matter in comparison with the will of
shining eyes, not interrupting or questioning him, but believing with
shinshín, a cousin of the countess’, a man with “a sharp tongue”
shinshín. “he has stopped austria’s cackle and i fear it will be
shirt, and in every knapsack the appointed number of articles, “awl,
shod in a tartar boot embroidered with silver, and the firm pressure
shone with such gaiety and youth, such innocent youth, that it suggested
shooting at you like a target.”
shops, bakers’ signboards, street lamps, and sleighs!” thought
shortly after nine o’clock that evening, weyrother drove with his
shortsighted delight at the misery of others, and doubts and torments
short sturdy figure with the sinewy hairy hand and stumpy fingers in
shots came.
should already have suggested to your heart, if it is sincere, more than
should be a nice set of fellows if we were to wait about and so give him
should be glad and not cry.”
should be if i could now say: ‘lord, have mercy on me!’... but to
shoulder and left the room without snuffing the candles or saying why he
shoulder and taking his feet off the sofa.
shoulders and dropped his eyes as if startled by something extraordinary
shoulders and eyes, almost closing the latter, sighed, and moved away
shoulders. anna mikháylovna with just the same movement raised her
shoulders close to his eyes.
shoulders, turned out his toes, tapped gently with his foot, and, by
shoulder, their bayonets interlocking, moved over the bridge in a dense
should get not more than two hundred rubles every four months, even
should much like to be an adjutant and not remain at the front.”
should now be away in a foreign land amid strange surroundings, a manly
“shouldn’t we now send for berg?” asked borís. “he would drink
should one love and what hate? what does one live for? and what am i?
shouted.
shouted denísov in a bloodthirsty tone.
shouted denísov, suddenly, turning purple and rushing at the man with
shouted hoarsely.
shouted “hurrah!” in exactly the same voice in which he had shouted
shouted the regimental commander, thrusting forward his jaw and pointing
shouted to him:
shouting.
shouting came from, a fire flared up and went out again, then another,
shouting grew louder and louder. rostóv could hear the sound of french
shouts of hurrah, and saw wounded being brought back (there were not
shouts of thousands of voices. his horse and the horse of the hussar
showed a paper she held in her hand—with the verses nicholas had
showed greatness of soul by not fearing to take on himself the whole
showed how he presented himself, with his hand to his cap, and really
showed that, in spite of all his love and respect for his father, he was
show her over, and they’ll talk nineteen to the dozen. that’s
showing the creases where it had been folded and thick gold epaulettes
showing the necessity of first paying off the loans from the land bank,
showing the spot where it burst.
showing under his open shirt, he stood in a majestic pose in the light
shown, fired. not at all expecting so loud a report, pierre shuddered
shown to the best room, which dólokhov had taken for that evening. some
shudder of disgust.
“shut up!”
“shut up!” cried dólokhov, pushing him away from the window. the
sick man had been laid in a stately pose in keeping with the ceremony
side and at first did not play. dólokhov kept glancing at him.
side and looked round with a frown. along the road from pratzen galloped
side as her betrothed, seeing, hearing, feeling her nearness, her
side by side. prince vasíli was not having any supper: he went round
side of the question and you will see that your duty, on the contrary,
side (only now did pierre realize how near death his father was), and
sides. he acknowledged no acquaintances but saw in all these men only
side, so close to our own forces that napoleon with the naked eye could
sides’ was smothered in sobs and he could get no farther. and again
sideways at princess mary from a little distance. “you have a maroon
“sideways! cover yourself with your pistol!” ejaculated nesvítski.
sídorov, turning to the french, winked, and began to jabber meaningless
sighed. “i have loved you like a son from the first. trust yourself to
     sighing its message out to thee...
sight of his superiors, he did not notice the staff of the banner and
sight of murat’s mantle and ostrich plumes, qu’il n’y voit que du
sight of tears and was ready to cry himself.
sign.
significant command to come to her on tuesday.
significantly at her husband) “i’m afraid, i’m afraid!” she
sign of strength.
sign papers, to present himself at government offices, the purpose of
signs to the footmen, and anxiously glancing from the clock to the door
sign that this was exactly what he had desired and expected. turning
silence.
silence and the regular tramp of feet beating the ground in unison, one
silence as he left the drawing room. he pictured the vanity of his
silence at princess anna mikháylovna. after her talk with pierre, anna
silence ensued. the countess looked at her callers, smiling affably,
silent.
silent and seemed confused. the prince asked her about her father, and
silent as he passed by, and moved to make way for him. at first pierre
silent. at first kutúzov stood still while the regiment moved; then he
silently—fearing to speak because at every word he felt ready to
silently, with the languid interest of sick children, at the envoy
silent prayer. every morning she came in like that, and every morning
silent, “that sónya and nicholas now say you to one another and meet
silent, waiting for what he would say.
silken hangings. on leaving the bed both prince vasíli and the princess
sill, leaned over, and looked down.
sill. “listen!” cried he, standing there and addressing those in the
sill to attract attention. “wait a bit, kurágin. listen! if
silver and crystal gleamed, so did the ladies’ toilets and the gold
simply dressed hair (two immense plaits twice round her lovely head like
simply looking at him.
simultaneously attacked and outflanked by superior french forces under
since early morning—despite an injunction not to approach the picket
since his appointment as commander in chief. he told me himself that
“since prince bagratión is not coming, we may begin,” said
“since the day of our brilliant success at austerlitz,” wrote
since then pierre had not been disturbed and had spent the whole time in
since the nursing mothers were no longer sent to work on his land, they
since the time when he thought his son had been killed, he did not think
singer” (he meant natásha’s italian singing master), “that’s
“singers to the front” came the captain’s order.
sir!”
sire,” * he answered gaily, raising nevertheless ironic smiles among
sir, for shame! it would be better if you went to the war.”
sister, black eyes... na... tasha... (won’t she be surprised when
sister, catiche, with a vicious and determined look steadily fixed on
sister had hung round his neck with such emotion and reverence, “it
sister-in-law’s dress.
sister-in-law’s friendship for you. she was not expecting us?”
sister’s, but while in her case everything was lit up by a joyous,
sister’s room his wife was already awake and her merry voice, hurrying
sister,” was all she said, in a dry and mournful tone.
sister. “why isn’t she dull and ashamed?”
sister with the mole.
sit down! sit down, michael ivánovich!”
sitting and dropped onto it, covering his face with his hand. pierre
sitting at tea with bilíbin. “the fete is for tomorrow. how is your
sitting close to nicholas who was copying out some verses for her, the
sitting down beside him she began to speak about his father; but he
sitting here in almost the same positions as before, whispering to one
sitting in a conspicuous place and talking to him like a grown-up lady.
sitting motionless before the glass, looking at her face, and saw in the
sitting noisily backward and forward, made efforts to control himself
sitting on the sofa with the little cushions on its arms, in what used
sitting room.
sitting so for a while he rose, and, looking about him with frightened
situated,” said prince andrew.
situation it occurred to him that it was he who was destined to lead it
“six hundred rubles, ace, a corner, a nine... winning it back’s
six miles away, or whether they were near by in that sea of mist, no one
sixth chasseurs whom they had just passed. prince andrew was struck by
sixth stroke. the doctors pronounced recovery impossible. after a mute
six weeks after anna pávlovna’s “at home” and after the sleepless
six weeks later he was married, and settled in count bezúkhov’s
skillfully changed the subject. he asked him to tell them how and where
skillfully made watch, dares to say that, as he does not understand
skittles,” said he in conclusion.
sky—the lofty sky, not clear yet still immeasurably lofty, with gray
sky with clouds that had risen and were floating still higher, and
sleep at night. come now, where has this great commander of yours shown
sleepiness that kept coming over him. an enormous space, with our
sleeves!” said anna mikháylovna, pointing to nicholas as he went out.
sleeve with her finger, saying:
sleigh and pair at once, and go to bezúkhov’s, and tell him ‘count
slender, delicate arm, high above the elbow on that part that is covered
slender little girl.
slightly open, as if to say, “yes, yes, i am putting my purse in my
slightly sarcastic smile. “i am borís, son of princess anna
slight smile he began to examine his nails.
slippery ice that covered the millpool.
slope of the hill amid the smoke a russian battery that was still firing
“smack at ‘em, lads!” he kept saying, seizing the guns by the
small but distinctly visible enemy column was moving down the hill,
small cloud rose from the hill and was borne in a streak to the left by
small old man, with powdered wig, small withered hands, and bushy gray
“smart lads! only fit for a fair!” said one.
smashed, and the shouting grew louder. they drank to bekleshëv,
smash something. pushing away the footmen he tugged at the frame, but
smeared with chalk—as white as flour! i suppose they polish him up as
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile, and engaged the smiling julie in a confidential conversation
smile, and pronouncing the phrase “knocked out” with ringing
smiled and interrupted him.
smile, for which he was long unable to forgive himself, “i have lost a
smile of a doctor to whom an old wife wishes to explain the treatment of
smile of his which seemed to say, “ah! this is what i like!”
smile of satisfaction and presented a strange appearance among the
smile on his lips and face, but his eyes were dull and lifeless and in
smile on his lips change.
smile that usually brightened her face. pierre knew that everyone was
smile was unlike the half-smile of other people. when he smiled,
smiling as if she did not recognize him.
smiling at his reassuring thoughts.
smiling, but in spite of herself her eyes under their thick long lashes
smiling. “cela nous convient à merveille.*(2) suvórov now—he knew
smiling face, moved after willarski with uncertain, timid steps.
smiling, glittered with effort and exasperation as he mustered his
smiling joyfully; and snatching the shawl from the footman, whom he
smilingly inclining his head.
smilingly raising a finger at him, she left the room.
smiling over the fan.
smoke, and an officer catching sight of bagratión rushed shouting after
smoke enveloped everything.
smoke, rendered denser by the mist, prevented him from seeing anything
smoke spasmodically and screwing up his eyes. this was an old bachelor,
smoke. the excited faces of the soldiers were blackened with it. some
smoking and talking. he neither smoked nor talked, but bending his head
smolénsk threatening bald hills—even then i wouldn’t serve in the
smolyanínov, and it mortified him to think that the newcomer was an
smooth as a sign that the conversation was at an end.
smooth—felt that no small matter was happening, but an important and
smoothing down her dress with an inquiring look at her mother, when
snacks.”
snow-covered road, did not once wake up on the way to moscow, but lay
snuffbox while trying to hear what was being said at the other table.
snuffbox with her husband’s portrait on it.
so alien to us.
so. and, in fact, the last letter he had received from mack’s army
soap, and all,” as the soldiers say. there was only one circumstance
sobbing like a child. the door opened. the doctor with his shirt sleeves
so beautiful that very often in spite of the plainness of her face
sobs. the count was lighting his pipe and did not notice his son’s
so, but you have no sense about women. what an argumentative fellow you
so-called battle of the three emperors—that is to say, a slow movement
society.
society.
society, and so her position now is not a rosy one. we should enter into
society. beside him stood a lad of nineteen, also a wounded officer of
society had entered the simple feeling of the attraction of a healthy
society had lost her former influential connections. she had now come to
society, more especially of the feminine society, in which i have had
society of women was rather derogatory to his manhood. he went to balls
society so dearly and distinctly indicated.
society woman to be buried in the country during the best years of her
so completely silenced and their arguments confuted by such conclusive
so contrary to his method of conducting war? believe me, he is afraid,
so convulsively that her bare little shoulders shook. natásha’s
so delighted...” came the sounds of animated feminine voices,
so do you too! to the health of alexander the first! hurrah!”
so easily extract a good profit for themselves from a dinner costing
so energetically do we pursue this aim that after crossing an unfordable
so for friendship’s sake he is leaving the university and me, his
soft hand taking hers firmly, and she touched with her lips a white
soft snowbanks that bordered both sides of the path. the prince went
soft steps of the footmen. at one end of the table sat the countess with
so he simply held out his bristly cheek (as yet unshaven) and, regarding
so he went from one group to another. some of the most important old men
“so i can fire when i like!” said pierre, and at the word
so ill that he may die at any moment, and dr. lorrain has come from
soirees as before—such as she alone had the gift of arranging—at
“so it does,” thought pierre.
“so it is all finished!” he thought. “and how has it all happened?
“so it is useless to ask whether it is good or bad. it is good because
so it seems to me.”
“so it seems you’re a hero, eh? come now, what was this duel about?
sokólniki after the duel and had spent that first agonizing, sleepless
sokólniki forest and found dólokhov, denísov, and rostóv already
sokolnitz, november 30, 1805.”
soldier.
soldier after camp life. despite his rapid journey and sleepless night,
soldier and the gay and smartly marching men. in the second file
soldier at the front, gave the command “attention!” and rode up
soldier. “i’ll teach you to push on!... back!”
soldier, mimicking the general who had ridden away. “i’d shoot them,
soldier of forty—looked sternly at the singers and screwed up his
soldiers, after a twenty-mile march, were kept mending and cleaning all
soldiers and officers of various regiments, they saw on their left some
soldiers’ bonfires and with his long gray mustache, his white chest
soldiers’ boots. more than half the men’s boots were in holes. but
soldiers forming the picket line, like showmen exhibiting a curiosity,
soldiers had kindled on the road. rostóv, too, dragged himself to the
soldiers held him while two others were flourishing their switches and
soldier shouted to him. “they’d kill you there!”
soldiers lifted the canteen lids to their lips with reverential faces,
soldiers, loudly demanding bread, meat, biscuits, fodder, and whatnot!
soldiers, munching biscuit and beating a tattoo with their feet to
soldiers, officers, and generals were heroes. but the hero of heroes was
soldiers only need to be restrained and held back! on all sides, new and
soldiers passed in a semicircle round something where the ball had
soldiers ran from the fires, thrust their pipes into their boots, their
soldiers running in confused crowds across his path.
soldiers, straining their lungs, shouted “hurrah!”
soldiers. the company marched on gaily. the soldiers’ voices could be
soldiers! the russian army is advancing against you to avenge the
soldiers to change into their greatcoats. the company commanders ran off
soldiers. “where are you shoving to? devil take you! can’t you wait?
soldiers who were seizing the artillery horses and turning the guns
soldier three gold pieces.
soldier with a wagon, who was pressing onto the infantrymen who were
soldier, with his clear blue eyes, stepped forward from the ranks, went
soldier with the harsh voice, and it was that affair and this soldier
solemn affair. every general and every soldier was conscious of his own
solemn interest and silent approval. the aunt spoke to each of them in
so long,” he added.
so long waited, presents itself to him at last. he firmly and clearly
so many years moravians in shaggy caps and blue jackets had peacefully
some!”
some approaching achievement, and some in course of disintegration. he
some concessions. continuing to represent the liberation of the serfs
someday i will tell you about our parting and all that was said then.
some flash as of an electric spark shot from telyánin’s eyes to
some great change had come over him that day. he was silent all through
“some herb vodka? certainly!” said túshin. “but still, to
some inspection business,” remarked the visitor.
some in the sitting room, some in the library.
some men who, carrying pails, came running downstairs, their boots
some not. this whole mass droned and jostled in confusion under the
some of the nearest relatives had not yet left. they were sitting in
some of the topics at first lightly touched on: their past life, plans
someone mentioned that captain túshin was bivouacking close to the
someone. (prince bagratión did not ask about the guns on the left
someone rich and distinguée, and it is on you that his relations’
someone to fire at.
some question—“most likely he is asking at what o’clock they
some reason she called it urope as if that were a specially refined
some sort were moving about, in front and behind moved lines of troops;
some swarthy men and women were really entering from the cold outside
something.”
something.”
something and went away. it seemed to pierre that even the prince was
something as she whispered:
something big, that splashed into the water.
something, but dared not.... no, it was i who dared not. but that’s
something disconcerting to himself.
something i cannot inflict on others,” said prince andrew, growing
something i have received from the chancellor. i asked him for you, and
something large, brilliant, and handsome moving toward her as she
something like qualms of conscience. she had reminded him of what was
something loudly to a comrade farther back. rostóv paused. “no,
“something special is always said in such cases,” he thought, but
something striking and took part in a conversation only when that was
something terrible and monstrous rising in his soul and turned quickly
something that was evidently wrong and that he ought not to do. but at
something to drink?”
something to him in french in an undertone and then went up to a small
something toward it and you cannot persuade me that it was not a good
sometimes four abreast. from all sides, behind and before, as far as ear
sometimes like a chip of wood whirling in the river, an hussar on foot,
sometimes on his way back from the anteroom he would pass through the
sometimes spend a whole night at his writing table. he worked well
some time to get the wedding ring off his fat finger. when that had been
some twenty men of his suite. these gentlemen talked among themselves
some way and knowing that this was impossible was ready to cry. the tsar
somewhere below his throat rushed to his face and eyes. he could not
somewhere beyond them. the hussars did not look round, but at the sound
somewhere nearer the sun.”
somewhere under her heart would ever cry, suck her breast, and begin to
some wooded hills were discernible, and it was there the enemy probably
“so much the better! i shall see it close,” he thought.
so my conscience was at ease. i came forward....” (berg stood up and
son.
son.
son.”
song.
song, arousing an involuntary sensation of courage and cheerfulness.
son, ilyá? only fancy, i didn’t know you at first. do you remember
son made no rejoinder, but it was evident that whatever arguments were
son or kinsman.”
son’s affair hushed up, but even he was ordered out of petersburg.”
son’s arrival: he gave orders to admit him to his apartments while
son, sat at the table writing. he glanced round.
son; sónya, the count’s fifteen-year-old niece, and little pétya,
son’s when speaking to him that afternoon, “believe me i suffer no
sónya again interrupted. she gave him an imploring, frightened look.
sónya and dólokhov before dinner, and with the kindly sensitiveness
sónya and fat little pétya doubled up with laughter.
sónya became thoughtful. the question of how to write to nicholas, and
sónya could not continue, and again hid her face in her hands and in
sónya did not pull it away, and left off crying. natásha, not stirring
“sónya, don’t believe her, darling! don’t believe her! do you
sónya interrupted him.
sónya, natásha, pétya, anna mikháylovna, véra, and the old count
sónya sat up. the little kitten brightened, its eyes shone, and it
sónya, shaking off some down which clung to her and tucking away the
“sónya,” she suddenly exclaimed, as if she had guessed the true
sónya’s joint ages. rostóv, leaning his head on both hands, sat at
sónya smiled.
sónya smiled.
sónya’s refusal and felt uncomfortable at the thought of how they
sónya’s thin little shoulders, natásha’s eyes and laughter,
sónya struck the first chord of the prelude.
sónya too, all rosy red, clung to his arm and, radiant with bliss,
sónya trembled all over and blushed to her ears and behind them and
sónya was more tender and devoted to him than ever. it was as if she
sónya was sitting at the clavichord, playing the prelude to
“sónya! what is anyone in the world to me? you alone are
“sónya! what is it? what is the matter?... oo... oo... oo...!” and
“sónya, what is the matter with you? how can you?” said he, running
sónya, whom he loved and thought of just the same as ever.” when she
soon after his admission to the masonic brotherhood, pierre went to the
soon after prince andrew’s return the old prince made over to him a
soon after prince bagratión had left him, túshin had succeeded in
soon after this there came into the dark chamber to fetch pierre, not
soon as he had seen a visitor off he returned to one of those who were
soon as the conversation concerned himself he would begin to talk
sooner?”
sooner or later he would step across it, but an incomprehensible terror
so on. then a place was assigned to pierre, he was shown the signs of
“só-o-onya! look here! how can you torture me and yourself like that,
soothe him.
“sophie,” he began, timidly at first and then more and more
sophie—i can’t repeat them—that it made the count quite ill and he
sophie, the rosy, laughter-loving, youngest princess with the mole,
so rapid that they could hardly be his mother’s.
sorrowful, and all-forgiving expression on her face, stood by the door
sorrow, sadness, or self-reproach, that she purposely deceived herself
sort—(le sort de l’armée d’ulm).” * he remembered these words
sorts, and russian and austrian soldiers of all arms, some wounded and
so softly that the rhetor did not hear him and asked him what he was
so strange that one could not take it in. but then the expression of
so strong that he could lift the back of the carriage from behind, sat
so terrible to the soldiers, despite his furious purple countenance
so that his mouth, the most striking feature of his face, was clearly
so that she felt herself surrounded on all sides by the acrid scent of
      * so that squares matters.
“so that’s what i’m sorry for—human dignity, peace of mind,
“so that’s what they hit with?” asked the accountant. “how
so that the maid could hardly get her hair plaited, and she was
“so the attack is definitely resolved on?” asked bolkónski.
“so there’s nothing?”
so the swishing sound of the strokes, and the desperate but unnatural
so the worse the condition it was in, the better pleased the commander
“so they will,” said nesvítski. “no, but what i should like,”
so to me? what have i done to you? you are going to the war and have no
soul and his face.
soul: courage, generosity, morality, love of mankind, and especially
soul to believe and he did believe, and felt a joyful sense of comfort,
soul to see such men as the old count and his worthy son,” said she.
sounded and you’ll be in a pretty position without your boots!” (the
sounded far away. here everyone clearly saw and said that the battle
sounded louder and calmer, the stretchers disappeared from sight.
sounded much like irony. but kutúzov went on blandly smiling with the
sounded. several of our men fell, among them the round-faced officer
sounded still more firm and resolute.
sounding, even the connoisseurs said nothing, but only delighted in
sound of artillery fire near by. having forced his way out of the crowd
sound of footsteps.
sound of kissing. when prince andrew went in the two princesses, who
sound of officers’ voices in eager conversation.
sound of that sentence: “contez nous çela, vicomte.”
sound of the hoofs of the approaching cavalcade, but because as he drew
sound of these voices, the inattentive way kozlóvski looked at him, the
sound of wheels and footsteps heard by the outposts during the night,
sounds very fast: “kari, mala, tafa, safi, muter, kaská,” he said,
sount ze retreat!”
“so we are to have visitors, mon prince?” remarked mademoiselle
so well how to arrange a feast on an open-handed, hospitable scale,
so widely from a private.
“soyez tranquille, lise, you will always be prettier than anyone
“so you are not afraid to play with me?” repeated dólokhov, and as
“so you are really going to the war, andrew?” she said sighing.
“so you are still at that silly business!” quickly closed his eye
“so you have never noticed before how beautiful i am?” hélène
so young, and burdened with such riches—to what temptations he will be
“so you think he is powerless?” said langeron.
spadefuls of red clay were continually being thrown up from behind the
sparkling black eyes, and black tousled mustache and hair. he wore an
speak—he turned back, rapidly mounted the stairs again with the
speaking and evidently not thinking about her at all. anatole was not
speaking as if he were saying something which had long since been agreed
speaking french. he opened his eyes. above him again was the same lofty
speaking of a collection of snuffboxes that had belonged to pierre’s
speaking of berg as her “intended.” the count sat between them and
speaking of him, my dear sir. of what, of whom, are we speaking? whom
speaking of the position of prussia, anna pávlovna very naturally asked
speaking playfully of a matter that evidently distressed him.
speaking quickly with a harsh german accent, looking to both sides and
speaking to an austrian general. prince andrew, who was a little behind
speaking very gently.
speak in the tone of decided refusal and disagreement in which he had
speak, so now she could not believe that that little creature could be
special force. no matter what he thought about, he always returned to
specially amiable mood that day.
specially choice delicacy a piece of meat that no one who had seen it in
spectacle of his power over these three women. besides that, he was
spectacles.
spectacles and white dressing gown, in which he received no one but his
spectacles unable to understand what they wanted or how they could go on
speeches were intended for quite other conditions, they were for the
spend time in reading what is unintelligible and can therefore bear
spent, and almost every year he was obliged to borrow. besides this the
spirited impression.
spiritual needs, while it seems to me that animal happiness is the only
spirit will not and cannot understand the emperor alexander’s
spite of his evident wish to do so he could not give them a joyous
spite of his money. they wanted to introduce him to me, but i quite
splashing with blood those near them.
splendid! and i am sitting here ill, as you see.”
“splendid! excellent!” exclaimed natásha. “another verse,” she
splendid house!”
splendidly.”
splendid soldiers. besides he began by attacking germans. and only
“splendid! what a horse he will be!” he thought with a smile, and
spoil her, but really that seems the best plan. with her elder sister i
spoke as if his sole aim were to put a given number of questions—the
spoke in abrupt sentences. “the whole company can bear witness. i beg
spoken to the gentleman ranker, he addressed him with the cordiality of
spoke particularly slowly, as if to impress the fact that there was no
spoke smilingly and listened with a laugh.
spoke to the taciturn michael ivánovich more often than to anyone else.
spot” (he stooped and pointed to the sloping ledge outside the window)
sprang out before the sleigh stopped, and ran into the hall. the house
spread apart, he began explaining his reasons for thinking the abbé’s
spread by the fact that the emperor’s carriage had really galloped
spreading out his legs and putting his hands on his knees with the air
spread out her arms to show her short-waisted, lace-trimmed, dainty gray
spread out his arms with a choleric gesture.
springing to him, putting her arms round him, and kissing him. this
spring up with more energy and again play with her cousin as soon as
squadron. all were looking at the enemy in front and at the squadron
squadron commander.
squadron in which nicholas rostóv served as a cadet was quartered in
squadron may be recommended for honors and he may get a ribbon. our
squadron’s officers in denísov’s quarters.
squadron, that in which rostóv was serving under denísov, to return to
squadron. the day was bright and sunny after a sharp night frost, and
squatting on his heels in front of a clerk. the clerk, with cuffs turned
s— s— get the same distinction?”
staff...”
staff?”
staff captain’s question by a disapproving shake of his head.
staff officer.
staff officer, and at zherkóv, and he frowned.
staff officer smiled.) “kindly return to your posts, gentlemen, all of
staff were not far off, in the village the vehicles were going to.
stages of his journey.
stairs and embraced his sister.
stairs and up another, to pierre’s rooms.
stake of twenty rubles.
standard in hand, i shall go forward and break whatever is in front of
standing motionless; then he came to the region occupied by uvárov’s
standing together out of range of the shots, watching, now the small
standing up, on which lay an open exercise book, and the lathe with
stand made at krems and the victory over mortier raised the spirits of
stand the sight of these unfortunates.
starry night was followed by a bright cheerful morning. the snow was
stars on his breast. he seemed to have grown thinner since the morning;
started,” thought prince andrew, watching his old acquaintance with
starting from their sockets to watch their chief. on reaching the
start my apprenticeship as old maid.”
*** start of this project gutenberg ebook war and peace ***
state.”
state of the political thermometer of legitimate petersburg court
stating them to the emperor francis. he vividly imagined the casual
station), and again embraced his sister.
station, but compared to the thoughts that now occupied him it was a
stationed on the pratzen heights.
station or a doctor for the cadet, and sat down by a bonfire the
stayed his hand. the sergeant, who was evidently wiser than his general,
staying the whole evening, i hope?”
steadily and ceaselessly on all sides. with the exception of the aunt,
step; a soldier who had fallen behind, his face showing alarm at his
step could be heard. on their left flank, nearest to bagratión, marched
stepped away from the man and looked round inquiringly at the adjutant
stepped softly over the carpet and went out into the waiting room.
stepped to the middle of the room and stood still.
“stepping flat on his heels—we know what that means....”
stepping into the deep snow. he held the pistol in his right hand at
steps.
steps, and again stopped.
steps behind him holding two horses by their bridles. each time prince
steps. behind the company the sound of wheels, the creaking of springs,
steps down the line. he was evidently pleased at his own display of
steps, her workbag on her arm, and gaily spreading out her dress sat
steps. “o god,” he said with tears in his eyes, “how could you do
steps should be taken to liberate the serfs, which the steward met by
steps. when at last, smartly whirling his partner round in front of her
step that for you all is ended, all is closed except the drawing
stern and solemn train of thought that weakness from loss of blood,
stern but handsome face really joined in the dance. what was expressed
stern eyes on his son.
sternly with a threatening and forbidding movement of her head.
stern, shrewd, and penetrating expression of that look struck pierre. he
stern, threatening, inaccessible, and intangible line which separates
steward, and again began giving orders. a light footstep and the
steward there, who, bowing respectfully, looked into his face and at
“still aching?” túshin asked rostóv in a whisper.
“still, don’t ruin yourself!” said dólokhov with a side glance at
still farther ahead a dark line which he could not see distinctly but
still feeling his eyes gazing at her.
still five men between him and dólokhov with his bluish-gray uniform.
still gazed at the spot where pierre’s face had been before he sat
still he was lifted and laid on the stretcher.
still. “if it were a man whose existence thou didst doubt i could
still in course of construction. round the house was a garden newly laid
still in the drawing room, drew a chair toward him or her, and jauntily
still in the same place, his stout body resting heavily in the saddle
still it was terrible, and she could not help thinking of it. she was
still, i will take borís and go to see him at once, and i shall speak
still less did he think of injuring anyone for his own advantage. he
still looking silently at her brother and her beautiful eyes were full
still no one moved. the troops of the left flank, infantry and hussars
still quite a young lady, before her nose was broken; how she had aged
still smiling, she gracefully moved away, turning and glancing at her
still sound, yellowish teeth.
still the cannon balls continued regularly to whistle and flop onto the
still there?”
“still the same; but what can you expect, this noise...” said the
“still the same,” she said to her husband.
“still the same. wait, for heaven’s sake. karl ivánich always says
still was not in time to avoid them.
still when she’s fifty.”
still why didn’t you capture him? so don’t be surprised if not only
stimulating effect on him. “vive l’empereur! l’empereur!” he now
stint yourself, we’ll settle afterwards,” he added, turning to
stir. an adjutant, dismounting, lifted the soldier under the arms to
stir, and a footman who had run in announced, with a frightened face:
stir around him, then the people resumed their places and the service
stomach with an already stiffened arm flung wide.
stone, hundreds of riders composing the suites moved carelessly but
stones of the pavement.
stood at a window with dólokhov, whose acquaintance he had lately
stood at every door anxiously noting visitors’ every movement in order
stood before a looking glass and brushed the hair on his temples
stood cold and silent, as if quite regardless of who had come to it.
stood, met, and separated, some in uniform and some in evening dress,
stood waiting by the door.
stood with his marshals around him, it was quite light. above him was
stood with the candle. yes, it was he, pale, thin, with a changed and
“stop jesting,” said prince andrew sadly and seriously. this news
stopped and glanced inquiringly over his spectacles at his guide. anna
stopped at a solitary, deserted house that had probably once been an
stopped him. he turned his horse and galloped off.
stopped the company.” dólokhov breathed heavily from weariness and
stopping in front of the pávlograds, the tsar said something in french
stopping occasionally at a corner to make menacing gestures at the wall,
“stop them!” he shouted, and at the same moment, probably realizing
“stop this jesting,” he said.
“stop those wretches!” gasped kutúzov to the regimental commander,
stories of his kindness and irascibility. berg, as usual, kept silent
stories of the grand duke’s quick temper he related with gusto how in
stories or telling them, but followed every movement of rostóv’s
story of the misfortunes of some mary víktorovna or other. at the
story to him, her seducer. and now he, a real russian prince, had
stouter!...”
straight into his son’s face with keen eyes which seemed to see
straight! it’s well god had mercy on us. and what was it for? who
straight on napoleon, he was silent.... so insignificant at that moment
strains of daniel cooper (somewhat resembling those of a merry peasant
strange and ridiculous to meet objections from russian generals and to
strangely softened but agitated expression on his face. he came up the
stranger.
stranger, looking deeper and deeper into pierre’s eyes. “and in
strangers and unable to send news of himself. the gazettes from which
stranger, yet nearer to him through the brotherhood of man. with bated
strange, unknown, and dangerous places he reaches, just as a sailor is
strategic position where the operations would take place was familiar in
straw covered street and turned into the wide courtyard of count cyril
strayed from under her friend’s plaits.
strayed off the track into the snow, pierre looked down at his feet,
streamed out of a side street.
streets of brünn and found himself surrounded by high buildings, the
stretched along the highroad in the midst of a young copse in which were
stretchers came into view before rostóv. and the fear of death and of
“stretchers!” shouted someone behind him.
stretching himself he rose from the table. “one does get tired sitting
(strictly speaking, daniel cooper was one figure of the anglaise.)
strictly to obey. you said the bridge would be burned, but who would it
striking a blow!”
striking chords with his short fingers, his legs thrown back and his
striking him regularly on his bare back. the man shrieked unnaturally.
striking his horse with his long muscular legs as if it were to blame
stripes on their bodies heal, and they are happy as before. but it is
stroke, came up to the prince, bowing his bald head resignedly before
stroked the animal. it was plain that he did not quite grasp where he
stronger flow of love for his sovereign. he longed to show that love in
strong, healthy, cheerful, and excited, and are surrounded by other such
struck him by her beauty on the preceding day. today, when he had caught
struck the ground in front of them.
struck two and another with a shrill tone joined in from the drawing
struggle, but with naïve and lighthearted gaiety.
struggles of a certain emilie de mansfeld. “and why did she resist
struggle to conquer that fear, all his dreams of distinguishing himself
study.
study a little before noon in his silk dressing gown and found his head
study, on the blue sofa, the confidential sofa? why cannot i now, as
study, the old prince went for his walk as usual next morning, but he
stumbled on him in the fog, hearing no encouraging word from their
stumbled over it. several of those present laughed.
stupidest remarks came out clever and apt. now everything pierre said
style, wearing an antique coat and powdered hair; and when prince andrew
subject, and was thus at the duc’s mercy. the latter spared him, and
subject under discussion than those they are talking with.
submissive general.
submit from habit, and she said: “i wish only to do your will, but if
submit my report, with the information that if the army remains in its
submitted herself to mademoiselle bourienne and lise. both these women
subordinate by me.
subordinate commanders was done, if not by his direct command, at least
subscribed the same amount as the others.
subsiding under the delightful interest of his own story, “is that the
subtleties here beyond my feeble intelligence, but i can’t make it
succeeded in forestalling the french he was to delay them as long as
succeeded in setting two loquacious talkers at one another.
succeeded!’ the prussian generals pride themselves on being polite to
succeeds. he sat motionless, looking at the heights visible above
success.”
success and at the inability of others to understand these things.
successfully cannonading the french, our artillerymen only noticed this
success reached kutúzov’s cheerless staff with the galloping advent
such a friend that i burned my arm for her sake. look here!”
such a fright! oh, what a pig i am!” he repeated, flushing suddenly.
such an unfortunate and charming woman! don’t mention him before
such a plan in which the enemy’s position was assumed to be known,
such a small, insignificant creature compared with what was passing now
such as might call for his rapidity of perception and decision.
such bad health, and now this vexation about his son is enough to kill
such gratefully religious ones, with offerings of icons and the bread
such love as sónya was speaking of. but natásha had not yet felt
such silence and an anxiety to find something to say, the effect is
such things about bonaparte, but understanding that he was wanted as
suddenly.
suddenly a gust of wind beat violently against the casement of the
suddenly appeared in the fog, there was a flash, followed by a report,
suddenly appeared, looming huge as an elephant.
suddenly came to and, lifting his head with an effort, took rostóv, who
suddenly changed to one of horror. the french were supposed to be a
suddenly dólokhov made a backward movement with his spine, and his arm
suddenly from the next room were heard the footsteps of boys and girls
suddenly heard a sound new to him, of something swiftly approaching...
suddenly prince bolkónski frowned.
suddenly prince hippolyte started up making signs to everyone to attend,
suddenly replied the irate colonel. “if you vere in the cavalry...”
suddenly she jumped up onto a tub to be higher than he, embraced him so
suddenly the angry, squirrel-like expression of the princess’ pretty
suddenly transformed. he put on the air of a subordinate who obeys
suddenness and prompt him to the coarsest and most reckless actions.
suffer for it.”
suffering, and the nearness of death aroused in him. looking into
suffering, but what he wanted to do was too terrible.
suffering?” suggested another voice. prince andrew, however, did not
sufferings. what a heart! how like him it is! and how he has remembered
sufficient ground for this affair, or for blood to be shed over it....
sufficiently weakened to be successfully attacked. but still he did not
suggested that she had resolved to endure her troubles uncomplainingly
suggested to him a blow from something. he looked at prince vasíli
suggested to him a point of view which gave him a right to despise
suggestion and pressed his lips to the large boned, fleshy hand. neither
suite.
suite, and in the smoke that suddenly surrounded the gun they could see
suite and said in french:
suite who had mimicked the regimental commander, fell back from the
sumptuous but cold apartments known to pierre only from the front
sun. how beautiful the sky looked; how blue, how calm, and how deep!
superfluous was hanging on his benumbed left arm. the wrist felt as if
superior.
superior to napoleon’s, were concentrated in one place, the troops
superstition, and only two virtues—activity and intelligence. he
“supper, it’s time for supper! and here are the gypsies!”
supported him under the arms. there was a gurgle in his throat and he
support of his battery all was forgotten. prince andrew listened
supposed, must have risen to fifteen thousand. in reality it already
supposed, share the general russian antipathy to the austrians which was
supposed that the russian guards, abroad, was quite a definite address,
suppose that i should look severely on your affection for that young
suppressed smile brightening both their faces, a smile that had nothing
“surely he will leave something to borís,” said the countess.
surprise.”
surprised by what he saw. hoping to enter on an entirely new life quite
surprised pierre.
surprise, the french had thrown down their muskets and run. dólokhov,
surrendered but had beaten the french.
surrender of most of the prussian fortresses had been received, when our
“surrounded! cut off? we’re lost!” shouted the fugitives.
surroundings, and from her smiling lips flowed sounds which anyone may
surroundings unable to find their own regiments. in this way the action
surveying the guests, and leisurely arranged her wide sleeves as if
survive....”
suvórov giving his saber to bagratión in italy, and the recollection
suvórov-like, in a kibítka, and is received with acclamations of joy
suvórov. moreover, paying such honor to bagratión was the best way of
suvórov’s time, now passing so gallantly before the emperors, that he
suvórov’s wars. send it to the academy. here are some jottings for
swallowing his r’s, and pronouncing the latin words with a french
swarmed with well-provisioned sutlers and austrian jews offering
sway and scatters its last snows and storms with desperate fury. a relay
sways the world. think this over and i will come to you again.”
sweeter, and better than the feelings which the beautiful eyes of a
sweetest comforts to my poor heart, which has already suffered so much.
sweetly. it was the third time that day that, with an ecstatic and
sweet, so good-natured, and her position now is a very hard one.”
sweet wine, my dear, now that the time has come for these young ones to
swinging their arms and keeping time spontaneously, marched with long
sword of frederick the great.
swords, meaning them to pierce it. but the swords were drawn back from
symmetrically and above all freely, and in front of them two men—the
symmetrically on his knees in the naïve attitude of an egyptian statue,
sympathize with him; if i seem sad and out of spirits myself, he will
table.
table, a child’s table, and the little chair on which prince andrew
table and becoming more animated and talking more rapidly: “what if
table and placed on it his small leather-gloved hands.
table began to watch her hands arranging the cards. from the dancing
table. denísov was sitting there scratching with his pen on a sheet of
table linen, he would call dmítri vasílevich, a man of good family and
table on a corner of which he smilingly and absent-mindedly fixed his
tables and the same chandelier with a cover over it; but someone had
table seemed to feel this, and they forgot their duties as they looked
table that he had pushed away. “but... in short, the fact is... you
table. “what are you thumping the table for?” she demanded of the
tache,” he thought. “there now... it’s not a tache... natásha...
“tafa-lafa! but what he’s jabbering no one can make out,” said a
tail extended, bedouin, as if also conscious of the emperor’s eye
“take a glass of boiled water and put a pinch of cream of tartar,”
take a seat beside her.
“take a stick between your legs, that’ll suit you for a horse!”
take her for her connections and wealth. are there no women living
take his eyes off her and beat time with his saber in a way that clearly
take it...” he threw it on the table. “i have an old father and
“take it if you like,” said the officer, giving the girl an apple.
“take it right out, or they’ll think i’m holding on,” said
take me too? who are these men?” thought rostóv, scarcely believing
taken a ballroom in bezúkhov’s house, and the ball, as everyone said,
taken advice; but no, you go and blurt it all straight out before the
taken, and all this for the beaux yeux * of his sardinian majesty. and
taken and i hope it will not be, for it is mined and orders have been
taken from the prisoner.
taken, it was not his fault but the corporal’s who had sent him to
taken off his eyes and, by the faint light of the burning spirit,
taken up their position and seeing troops before them, thought they were
take part in receiving the visitors. the count met the guests and saw
takes place at such moments.
take the money,” and he threw the purse to him and ran out of the inn.
take these away. put this on the seat and this to the right.”
“take this and deliver it,” said he to his adjutant, handing him the
“take this road, your honor, that way you will be killed at once!” a
taking advantage of it!”
taking a glass from the table he went up to pierre.
taking a letter addressed in a woman’s hand from a bag hanging above
taking charges from their pouches, while others were firing, though who
taking him by the hand led him forward. the hairs tied in the knot hurt
taking his partner with him. he glided silently on one foot half across
taking leave of anna pávlovna. “it is settled,” she added in a low
taking no notice of his arrival. a wax candle stood at each side of the
taking offense, but you don’t mind disgracing the whole regiment!”
taking out what she was holding inside it, as if what she held were
taking the colonel’s outburst as a challenge to his courage, the
taking up a pack he prepared to deal. rostóv submissively unbent the
talk, but i don’t want to,” he seemed to say. besides this, in his
talked of peace but did not believe in its possibility; others talked
talking about me? let us talk about you,” he added after a silence,
talking of the schön grabern affair? were you there?”
talking. seeing them pass, prince vasíli drew back with obvious
talking too loudly and vehemently with the abbé, so she hurried to the
talks sense, but to temporize and wait for something now when bonaparte
talk to her. what a darling sónya is!” he added with a smile.
tangled black hair.
task pierre had to face was one for which he had very little aptitude or
taste. and she had a lady’s maid, also big. she said....”
tea?” asked his valet.
teacher’s fault or the pupil’s, this same thing happened every day:
teach you to dress the men in fancy coats for a parade.... eh...?”
tears.
tears.”
teatime she would prepare the countess, and after tea, with god’s
teeth, he began with stubby fingers of both hands to ruffle up his thick
“tell bezúkhov to come. i’ll put his name down. is his wife with
tell everything just as it happened, but imperceptibly, involuntarily,
telling her things. she has had a dream and is frightened.”
telling him.
telling me what forces are being collected against him! while you and i
“tell me about that!” he said.
tell me,” he added with studied carelessness as if it had only just
“tell me, my dear,” said she to natásha, “is mimi a relation of
“tell me, when did the battle begin?” he asked hurriedly.
tell the little countess!”
“tell them to give me a seat, for god’s sake!”
“tell these devils, these fiends, to let me pass!” shouted denísov
tell the truth.
tell you for the tenth time that if the letter to the emperor and the
telyánin.
telyánin.
telyánin, and he went out to give the order.
telyánin’s orderly. “has something happened?” he added, surprised
telyánin, taking up his cap and moving toward a small empty room. “we
telyánin was sitting in the same indolent pose in which rostóv had
temper because prince vasíli was coming, or whether his being in a bad
temper made him specially annoyed at prince vasíli’s visit, he was
temptation she slipped quietly behind one of the columns. in the midst
tenacious endurance and vigor of hardy old age. after a few more turns
tenderly sad voice, she said:
ten minutes. and that it will not be too dull, here is the dear count
ten minutes later lavrúshka brought the coffee. “he’s coming!”
terrible and holy secrets of providence while we remain in this flesh
terrible, and now he has this authority of a commander in chief of
terrible dividing line of uncertainty and fear—resembling the line
terrible dragon, a lady distinguished not for wealth or rank, but for
terrible news from her till after her confinement, which was expected
terrible pain of being lifted onto the stretcher, the jolting while
terrible voice that the whole house heard it with horror. god knows what
terribly true. i pity prince vasíli but am still more sorry for pierre.
tête-de-pont. * they spin him a thousand gasconades, saying that
than a hundred cannon were already in the hands of the french.
than a man who has been looking at a tuft of steppe grass through the
than anything else showed pierre her superiority. she was right in
than a yard above the glow of the charcoal. flakes of falling snow were
than five hundred paces from where kutúzov was standing, a dense french
thanked him for his love. his looks thanked her for offering him his
thanked,” thought the overseer, “the storm has blown over!”
“thank god!”
“thank god,” said his son smiling.
“thank god!” said prince vasíli. “my wife has told me
“thank god!” said sónya, crossing herself. “but perhaps she
“thank god!” said the voice. “and father?”
thanks to anna mikháylovna’s efforts, his own tastes, and the
thanks to princess lise’s voice and little downy lip that lifted over
“thank you, my dear.” she kissed him on the forehead and sat down
“thank you very much, i will go on alone,” said prince andrew,
“thank you very much, prince,” answered one of the officers, pleased
thank you with my whole heart.” to rostóv every word sounded like a
thank you! you must have a rest. be at the levee tomorrow after the
“thank you; you saved me, my dear fellow!” said túshin.
than once. “you know it won’t do to leave your posts like this.
than the other; the serfs everywhere seemed thriving and touchingly
than with politics,” said he in his quiet ironical tone. “i know
that.
“that abbé is very interesting but he does not see the thing in the
that affair for me and i shall always be your most devoted slave-slafe
that afternoon. she felt that as she brought with her the person the
that all europe is powerless before him.... and i don’t believe a
that anna mikháylovna whom i would not take for a housemaid... the
that army: a feeling of self-forgetfulness, a proud consciousness of
that between the person they so address and themselves there are some
that both her slender bare arms clasped him above his neck, and, tossing
that came upon him at hollabrünn, which was clearly impossible. but
that column himself. when he had reached the village of pratzen he
that could save the army, and how he alone would be entrusted with the
that day, but had heard about them from an infantry officer. “they
that day nicholas rostóv received a letter from borís, telling him
that dinner was ready! the door opened, and from the dining room came
that divine purity and devotion i look for in women. if i found such a
“that dólokhov was my lover,” she said in french with her coarse
that dreadful abyss, pierre said to himself: “what am i doing? i need
that dread of beaten tracks, and wish to express itself in a manner
that end and when did this new, terrible state of things begin? what
that evening, proud of dólokhov’s proposal, her refusal, and her
that evening to bid a last farewell to the celebrated grandee of
that, even more than in moscow, he felt a sense of bewilderment, bustle,
that everything done by necessity, by accident, or by the will of
that everything was splendid. “just fancy: wants to be an hussar.
that explained their teaching by hieroglyphics. a hieroglyph,” said
that fat one in spectacles” (that was how pétya described his
that for an instant). why should he not love her now, and even marry
that friendship?” remarked the count in an inquiring tone.
that god who has been sewn into this amulet by mary! there is nothing
that had advanced beyond the village went back; but as though in revenge
that had already once been given in detail: “and tell the hussars
that had placed the vienna bridge in the hands of the french without
that had tormented him all dinnertime rose and took possession of him.
that, hearing he was in a bad humor, she had decided not to appear.
that he could not believe his eyes. “who are they? why are they
that he decided to go. the thought immediately occurred to him that his
that he fell off his horse and sprained his arm and then ran as hard as
that he had composed in his imagination could he now recall. those
that he is probably tired of them,” said another officer.
that he ought to avoid her and go away, pierre, despite that decision,
“that here lives count cyril vladímirovich bezúkhov so rich, all
that he should do the same. the rider, whose figure seemed familiar
that hesitation lasted only an instant. the tsar’s foot, in the narrow
that he too seemed ashamed of the hussar of the line.
that he was at the front and in the power of a man toward whom he now
that he was dangerously wounded.
that he would have to answer it justly, and justice clashed not only
that his heart stood still. his hand trembled as he gave his horse into
that his remarks were too enthusiastic and emphatic for the occasion and
that i am saying!” thought a diplomatist, glancing at the happy faces
that i do not like him.”
that if he asked on behalf of all who begged of him, he would soon be
that—if you consider yourself bound by your promise—it will seem as
that i’m a sharper, so i advise you to be careful.”
that imprint of newness found in the households of the newly married.
that insignificant society people might carry them from drawing room to
that in spite of all the unpleasantness he had to endure he would still
that instant the trooper nikítenko, who was galloping ahead, shot away
that in this world there is neither honor nor justice. in this world one
“that is all nonsense.” prince andrew again interrupted him, “let
“that is doubtful,” said prince andrew. “monsieur le vicomte quite
“that is enough for me,” said sónya, blushing.
“that is just why i do not begin, sire,” said kutúzov in a
“that is no business of mine,” he thought. he had not ridden many
that is not yet ready.
“that is probably the work of vinesse,” said pierre, mentioning
that is still too fresh. ah, dear friend, you are happy not to know
that is the only reality in the world, all else is folly. it is the one
“that is what i ask you. no one, not even bonaparte, knows why.”
“that is what we shall see! that is what we shall see!” he added
“that is why i beg to be sent to that detachment,” he said.
“that is, with ilyá rostóv who married nataly shinshiná,” said
that is, you want to raise him” (pointing to a peasant who passed by
that it is more dangerous to run away than to advance, but that russian
that it is we who lost the battle of pultúsk. in short, we retreat
that it might not occur to her to speak of his share in the affair of
that it seemed to be made of one piece with her head and covered with
that it was impossible to stop them, spurred his horse and rode to the
that it was not she but he was so unusually beautiful, and that that was
that it would be a bad thing), but he knew it would happen.
that i was ungrateful, and that mamma would never allow him to marry
that i would give my life twice over...” he looked at the countess,
that?... kindly do as you are ordered.”
that kutúzov’s upper lip twitched unnaturally as he said the
that led to his own apartments.
“that letter was written, though it was not sent, and the emperor knew
that makes me unhappy. but even in this i can see lately a shade of
that moment after supper at prince vasíli’s, when he spoke those
that moment a third enemy rises before us—namely the orthodox russian
that moment been wounded and his face showed fear rather than suffering.
that moment his home life, jokes with pétya, talks with sónya, duets
that moment pierre felt that hélène not only could, but must, be his
that month and a half while he felt himself drawn nearer and nearer to
that more irritating news than yours could not have been conceived.
that negotiations for peace were already proceeding, and that he
that never does any harm,” thought anatole.
that not even a continuity of most brilliant successes would secure
that one also passed. then followed a cart unlike any that had gone
that on receiving news of the defeat some would simply not believe it,
that passionate animal feeling which was apt to master him with great
“that passion which more than all others caused you to waver on the
that peculiar expression of polite weariness which plainly says, “if
that pierre could no longer see the reddish-yellow face with its gray
that princess mary in this guise looked very plain, worse than usual,
that provisions are supplied and the routes indicated,” said bilíbin,
that remained uninjured out of the four, they began moving down the hill
     * “that russian army which has been brought from the ends of
“that’s admirable!” he shouted. “he will take you with your
“that’s a fine death!” said napoleon as he gazed at bolkónski.
“that’s a good thing, but don’t move from prince vasíli’s. it
“that’s all right. no one thinks you a coward, but that’s not the
that same day a council of war had been held in which all the members of
that same evening there was an animated discussion among the
that same evening there was to be one of the balls that iogel (the
that same night, having taken leave of the minister of war, bolkónski
that same night, rostóv was with a platoon on skirmishing duty in front
“that’s a miwacle.”
“that’s better, count,” said the staff captain, beginning to
“that’s capital; of course she’ll forget her childish promises
“that’s fine,” said he.
“that’s for them all,” he said to the officer who came up.
that she had not intended her flight to bring her so far. behind her in
that she winced and uttered a cry.
that showed that his father’s foibles did not prevent his son from
“that’s how we used to dance in our time, ma chère,” said the
that’s it.” and with a complacent sigh he would return to the
“that’s it, that’s it!” exclaimed the count, and gaily seizing
“that’s just it,” answered bilíbin. “listen! the french entered
“that’s just it,” interrupted dolgorúkov quickly, laughing.
“that’s just it, my dear fellow. you see it’s hurrah for the tsar,
that sleep is more important than anything,” whispered princess mary
that smile was immediately reflected on pierre’s face.
that’s not it—that’s tomorrow. oh yes! natásha... sabretache...
“that’s not the point, my dear.”
that soldier passed on, and after him came another sitting on a cart.
that sort of man), he gave borís a pleasant smile, frowned as with
that sort of thing.”
“that’s our battery,” said the staff officer indicating the
that’s our house,” said rostóv. “of course, it’s our house!
“that’s so, your excellency, all they have to do is to eat a good
that state of mind which makes everything seem possible, pleasant, and
that’s the way they treat me! no confidence in me! ah, ordered to keep
that stood before his plate, pierre held out one at random and drank
“that’s true!”
“that’s twue, devil take it!” shouted denísov, jumping up. “now
that sum. “he’s begun to go a little lame on the left foreleg,” he
that surrounded the emperors.
“that’s what comes of a modern education,” exclaimed the visitor.
that’s what i did.”
that’s why i have come... i am a relation. i shall not disturb him,
that the corsican monster who is destroying the peace of europe may
“that the emperor will meet me and give me an order as he would to any
that the hussars must return quickly and fire the bridge.’”
that the ismáylov regiment was quartered for the night ten miles from
that the prince was in a bad humor, stood awaiting him; mademoiselle
that the pupils’ parents wept at having to let him take their children
that the question of his wife’s guilt which had been tormenting him
that there were no political difficulties in europe and no real war,
that these thoughts had been suggested to prince andrew by his
that the story about sergéy kuzmích, the laughter, and the food
that the strange lady, the aide-de-camp, and some of the servants, all
that they are to cross last and to fire the bridge as i ordered; and the
that they despaired of the possibility of checking this disorder.
that they may run smoothly.
that those broad-boned reddish hands with hairy wrists visible from
that tonight he was a person obliged to perform some sort of awful
that very instant a cloud of smoke spread all round, firing was heard
that village, amid the smoke, was something resembling a battery, but it
“that was a daniel cooper!” exclaimed márya dmítrievna, tucking up
“that was a nice snub for the little aide-de-camp,” came a voice
that was dispersing on the hill lay still more densely below, where they
that was good.
that was not pretty, but neither mademoiselle bourienne nor the little
that was swaying from its weight in prince andrew’s hands, but he
that were afloat, and so kutúzov’s suggestion of an austrian victory
that were arriving from russia. if kutúzov decided to remain at krems,
that were so agonizingly, incessantly pulling and pressing his arm and
that where the steward had shown him in the accounts that the serfs’
that which had said: “the pávlograd hussars?”
   that while her fingers touch the harp
that while napoleon’s proclamation was being read to the troops the
that white spot. “i expect it’s snow... that spot... a spot—une
that will decide the matter, but those who devised it,” said bilíbin
“that would be a fine thing!” said she. “i never wanted anything
“that would be fine, gentlemen!”
“that would take too long to tell,” answered the son.
that year, as all his estates had been remortgaged, and so nicholas,
that year to moreau to enter the russian service.... “wonderful!...
thawing in the sunshine, the horses galloped quickly, and on both sides
the 18th brumaire; was not that an imposture? it was a swindle, and not
the abbé. another, of young people, was grouped round the beautiful
the abbé morio and many others had also come.
the accountant with the naïve face was feeling its texture, shaking his
the accurate way characteristic of him, was building a little pyramid of
the act of falling asleep. rostóv lifted his head that had sunk almost
the address. “this letter would be of great use to you.”
the adjutant and the minister. “away from the smell of powder, they
the adjutant on duty, meeting prince andrew, asked him to wait, and went
the adjutant on duty,” said the official. “he will conduct you to
the adoration then common in moscow for the emperor, who was spoken of
the advanced army. prince andrew bolkónski came into the room with the
the advantages are far less than in the infantry. just consider my own
the affair, and like everyone in similar cases, did not yet believe that
the affair had come to an actual duel). “you know, count, it is much
the agility with which he capered about on his light feet, márya
the aide-de-camp was sent to confirm the order which had not been
the aide-de-camp with a respectful politeness evidently relating to the
the aim of supporting one another in the path of virtue, and that is how
“the ammunition for the guns in position is exhausted, your
the animated hum of several conversations. at one end of the table, the
the anteroom. “i can’t remain any longer in petersburg. tell me what
the appointed place.
“the Ápsherons must be stopped, your excellency,” cried he. but at
the archduchy of austria, and yet other regiments freshly arriving from
the archduke ferdinand and mack, and kutúzov, not considering this
the architect.
the armistice immediately and march on the enemy. inform him that the
the army, and about whom natásha had teased her elder sister véra,
the army considerably. throughout the whole army and at headquarters
the army now that it is in danger. i understand that. mon cher, it is
the army was a great grief to me. this young man, of whom i spoke to you
the arrival of a suitor agitated her, and still more so by both
the arrival of the rest of the troops who were on their way from vienna,
the artillerymen were still as merry and lively as ever. twice they
theater, where he had been with his family and denísov. he was at once
the attack of the sixth chasseurs secured the retreat of our right
the austrian adjutant, he addressed bolkónski.
the austrian general looked dissatisfied, but had no option but to reply
the baggage wagons had all crossed, the crush was less, and the last
the balance of power, and the latter, evidently interested by the young
the bald head. véra, natásha, sónya, and pétya now entered the room,
the band immediately struck up “conquest’s joyful thunder
the band struck up the newly introduced mazurka. nicholas could not
the baron.
the battalion commander. “oh, my god!” he added, stepping resolutely
the battalion commander perceived the jovial irony and laughed.
the battery to retire as quickly as possible. when the supports attached
the battlefield, believed that the french had been defeated and were
the battle had begun! prince andrew turned his horse and galloped back
the battle of schön grabern than you do now,” said his son with a
the beauty went to the aunt, but anna pávlovna detained pierre, looking
the bedchamber. the diplomatic career now lies open before you.”
“the berlin cabinet cannot express a feeling of alliance,” began
the best maroon dress, and so on, all would be well. they forgot that
the best post he could—preferably that of adjutant to some important
the better. but bogdánich, without looking at or recognizing rostóv,
the bigwigs who guided the club’s opinion reappeared, and everybody
the black, hairy, snub-nosed face of váska denísov, and his whole
the bohemian mountains with. it’s a bad lookout, old fellow! but
the bonfire, and addressing túshin asked him to have the guns moved a
the bonfires of our infantry who were felling wood. the french line was
the book was the gospel, and the white thing with the lamp inside was a
the boots.
the bottle of rum was brought. the window frame which prevented anyone
the bridge.
the bridge and its celebrated bridgehead and prince auersperg? we heard
the bridge and not let us cross? but it will please our sovereign the
the bridge chased each other along. looking on the bridge he saw equally
the bridge, for the horizon as seen from the valley through which the
the bridges were strong and had handrails. everything bore an impress of
the bridge unobserved, flings the bags of incendiary material into
the brilliant surroundings in which he had last met his friend in
“‘the brook,’” suggested nicholas.
the cadet was rostóv. with one hand he supported the other; he was
the campaign and the two battles in which he had taken part, and his
the campfire. they were quarreling and fighting desperately, each trying
the card tables were drawn out, sets made up for boston, and the
the care of a skillful rider and, slightly bending over, disengaged his
the carriage as pale as anything. how they made the four black horses
the carved back of a velvet chair he had turned round for the purpose,
the case, hesitated about lifting the injured or dead. the soldiers,
the case is this: you ought to have thought the matter over and
the cause of his grief.
the cause of justice against the enemy of the human race. anna pávlovna
the cause of the confusion was that while the austrian cavalry was
the center of the russian army, and that that center was already
the chair for her.
the changed expression on prince bagratión’s face at this moment. it
the chanting of the service ceased, and the voice of the priest was
the chantry long before, but that nine tenths of the peasants in that
the cheeks, the same expression was on her charming childlike face with
the cheerful glitter of that autumn day was in keeping with the news of
the cheerful mood of their officers after the inspection infected the
the chief steward, a very stupid but cunning man who saw perfectly
the chief steward expressed great sympathy with pierre’s intentions,
the chief steward, who considered the young count’s attempts almost
the child moved slightly in his sleep, smiled, and rubbed his forehead
the clavichord, sang the tune. bolkónski was not there. none of these
the clear blue eyes looked at the commander in chief just as boldly as
the cleverest among them, including the chief steward, understood from
the clever though shy, but observant and natural, expression which
the climate,” said he.
the cloak they spread under him was wet with blood which stained his
the club cook and the steward listened to the count’s orders with
the coach with six horses was waiting at the porch. it was an autumn
the coin was a new one. rostóv rose and went up to telyánin.
the cold, austere tone of this man, whom he had almost always before met
the cold wind, swarmed in these earthworks like a host of white ants;
the colonel, closely—to find in his face confirmation of his own
the colonel deliberately stopped the regiment and turned to nesvítski.
the colonel looked silently at the officer of the suite, at the stout
the colonel rode to the front, angrily gave some reply to questions put
the colonel told them that the declaration of war had already appeared
the colonel was a stout, tall, plethoric german, evidently devoted to
the column, gave him the order to advance.
the combatants advanced along the trodden tracks, nearer and nearer to
“the commander in chief is engaged,” repeated kozlóvski calmly.
“the commander in chief is engaged,” said kozlóvski, going
the commander in chief is expected and you leave your place? eh? i’ll
the commander in chief, kutúzov.
the commander in chief’s one sound eye showed him to be so preoccupied
the commander in chief would inspect the regiment on the march. though
the commander of the company, with his eyes fixed on his superior,
the commander of the dragoons had already retreated beyond the dip in
the commander of the regiment, a thin, feeble-looking old man with a
the commander of the regiment turned to prince bagratión, entreating
the commander of the regiment was an elderly, choleric, stout, and
the commander with a tone of suffering in his voice, while there were
the command of the army to general buxhöwden. during this interregnum
the command of the left flank belonged by seniority to the commander of
the company commander might get killed and he, as senior in the company,
the complete darkness túshin’s guns moved forward, surrounded by the
the concentrated activity which had begun at the emperor’s
the contempt with which rostóv, from his fighting army point of view,
the conversation, “almost all the aristocracy has already gone over to
the conversation broke up into insignificant small talk about the last
the conversation did not flag all evening and turned chiefly on the
the conversation to insignificant matters. natásha, who, of the whole
the conversation was hushed.
the convoy officer.
the copse across which our men, regardless of orders, were running and
the cossacks sold the horse for two gold pieces, and rostóv, being the
the cot. he did not look round, but still gazing at the infant’s face
the cot where she was standing, “better wait a bit... later...”
the council of war, at which prince andrew had not been able to
the council of war was just over when prince andrew accompanied
the count and at anna mikháylovna, the latter very adroitly turned
the count burst out laughing. the other guests seeing that shinshín
the count came waddling in to see his wife with a rather guilty look as
the count considered.
the count danced well and knew it. but his partner could not and did not
the count, dying with laughter.
the countess; about 70,000 went for interest on debts. the building of a
the countess as her mother and called her so) “that i am spoiling
the countess did not believe her ears. denísov had proposed. to whom?
the countess exchanged glances with anna mikháylovna. the latter
the countess’ eyes filled with tears and she pondered in silence.
the countess glanced at her silent son.
the countess had been prepared by anna mikháylovna’s hints at dinner.
the countess shrugged her shoulders.
“the countess told me to inquire whether your excellency was at
the countess tried to frown, but could not. márya dmítrievna shook her
the countess was a woman of about forty-five, with a thin oriental type
the countess was upset by her friend’s sorrow and humiliating poverty,
the countess, with a smile.
the count, holding his cards fanwise, kept himself with difficulty from
“the count is suffering physically and mentally, and apparently you
the count jumped up and, swaying from side to side, spread his arms wide
the count, my uncle; but you, my dear, had better go to pierre meanwhile
the count put his ear to the keyhole and listened.
the count sobbed yet more.
the count walked up and down the hall in his dressing gown, giving
the count was beginning to breathe heavily and quickly which was always
the count was delighted at anna mikháylovna’s taking upon herself one
the count went in first with márya dmítrievna, the countess followed
the court, carefully abstaining from expressing an opinion of his
the crowd moved on again. nesvítski realized that it was a cannon ball.
the crowd of retreating soldiers, ordering them back. bagratión rode up
the crowd, pushing forward desperately, squeezed together, moved a few
the crystal decanters and fruit vases, the count kept glancing at his
the dam, the pond, and the bank.
the darkness. this was the last french attack and was met by soldiers
the day after he had been received into the lodge, pierre was sitting at
the day after rostóv had been to see borís, a review was held of the
the day after the review, borís, in his best uniform and with his
the day. that’s what keeping one’s head means. that’s the way,
the decisive point, and gains the victory alone. “but death and
the declaration from petersburg gave him particular pleasure, and that
the deep wet snow between the place where they had been standing and
the determination of denísov who flourished his sword and shouted
“the devil knows! they’ve killed everybody! it’s all up now!”
“the devil only knows! they say so.”
“the devil only knows what they’re about!” muttered denísov.
“the devil skin your emperor.”
the dinner sat silent, glancing with a frightened look now at her
the disordered battalion and at the enemy, “what’s that?”
“the dispositions!” exclaimed kutúzov bitterly. “who told you
the dispositions or anything else—he was engaged in satisfying the
the dispositions were very complicated and difficult. they began as
“the divine mercy is inexhaustible! unction is about to be
the doctor cast a rapid glance upwards and silently shrugged his
the doctor entered. prince andrew went out and, meeting princess mary,
the doctor glanced at his watch.
the door.
the door and as soon as it opened his rough old arms closed like a vise
the door himself behind him.
the door; the scream ceased and he heard the wail of an infant.
the door, was sitting at the table in a persian dressing gown, writing.
the doorway appeared a student with a crimson coat collar, an officer
“the doubt is flattering,” said “the man of profound intellect,”
the drawing room. he evidently tried to find something to say, but
the duel between pierre and dólokhov was hushed up and, in spite of
the duel with nesvítski, bezúkhov’s second. pierre went home, but
the dull, sleepy expression was no longer there, nor the affectation
the duties of wife and mother upon me i shall try to perform them as
thee, and even in those blasphemous words thou hast just uttered!”
     the earth by english gold, we shall cause to share the same
the ebb and flow of these sounds.
the efforts of the old count, and instead of being degraded to the ranks
“the eighteenth.”
the elderly lady was a princess drubetskáya, belonging to one of the
the elders began talking about bonaparte. julie karágina turned to
the eldest princess paused in her reading and silently stared at him
the emperor about him; so that in the case of his death—and he is
the emperor alexander and the king of prussia in berlin? if prussia
“the emperor alexander,” said she, with the melancholy which
the emperor, and a thousand reasons occurred to him why it would be
the emperor drew level with rostóv and halted. alexander’s face was
the emperor, frowning slightly, bent his ear forward as if he had not
the emperor. he felt that this nearness by itself made up to him for the
the emperor immediately!” thought rostóv and galloped on.
the emperor interrupted him.
the emperor’s horse started at the sudden cry. this horse that had
the emperor spoke to him most graciously. annette and i were speaking of
the emperor’s severity regarding duels at that time, neither the
the emperor’s suite. one officer told rostóv that he had seen someone
the emperor’s voice.
the emperor thanked prince andrew and bowed. prince andrew withdrew and
“the emperor! the emperor!” was suddenly heard among the hussars.
the emperor turned with a smile to one of his followers and made a
the emperor without waiting for an answer turned away and said to one of
the enchanted circle i cannot escape from. i am now going to the war,
“the enemy has quenched his fires and a continual noise is heard from
“the enemy is still far away, your excellency. according to the
the enemy’s fires, but heard the shouting of the french more loudly
the englishman nodded, but gave no indication whether he intended to
the englishman took out his purse and began counting out the money.
the english will come off badly, you know, if napoleon gets across the
the enns and the danube became visible, and the rocky left bank of the
the enormously high study door opened and showed the figure of a rather
the enormous study was full of things evidently in constant use.
the entrenchment, and went on again. just behind it they came upon some
the epistles and gospels. let us not seek to penetrate what mysteries
the evening again turned to borís, asking him in a tone of caressing
“the exchange horses have just come,” answered the servant. “will
“the execution of the duc d’enghien,” declared monsieur pierre,
the exercise book containing geometrical figures.
the experience of old cunctators.”
the expression she saw on the maid of honor’s face, and again relapsed
the eyes of the general and the soldier met. the general became silent,
the eyes of the guardsman’s horse. the heavy black horse, sixteen
the face and figure of prince andrew, in a fur cloak the deep collar of
the face of each soldier and each officer seemed to say.
the face of the little princess changed. she sighed and said: “yes,
the faces of officers and men brightened up at the sound. everyone got
the face that emerged from the shirt.
“the fact of the matter is,” said she significantly, and also in a
the fall of austria’s capital. “how is it vienna was taken? what of
the familiar staircase. the well-known old door handle, which always
(the family solicitor) “and he says the same.”
the farther forward and nearer the enemy he went, the more orderly and
the farther he went the more disorganized they were. the highroad on
the fate of battles had arrived. would this disorderly crowd of soldiers
the feather bed. natásha began consoling her, but her face showed that
the feeling, “it has begun! here it is!” was seen even on prince
the felt boots approached the unseen bend of the staircase more rapidly.
“the field marshal is angry with the emperor and he punishes us all,
the field of battle, who though still in some confusion were less
the fire of life had seemed extinguished, now flashed with brilliant
the fires and shouting in the enemy’s army were occasioned by the fact
the first couple. noiselessly, skillfully stepping with his little
the first door on the left led into the princesses’ apartments. the
“the first man that turns up—she forgets her father and everything
the first second. “a baby? what baby...? why is there a baby there? or
the first time. sometimes that same look fell on pierre, and that funny
the first to catch his eye. he sent him.
the first to seize the surrendering french officer by his collar. our
the first words he heard on coming to his senses were those of a french
the flagstaff that had been dropped beside him. (the flag had already
the fog had begun to clear and enemy troops were already dimly visible
the fog had grown so dense that though it was growing light they could
the foreboding of evil that had suddenly come over rostóv was more and
the foreman of a spinning mill, when he has set the hands to work, goes
the foremost frenchman, the one with the hooked nose, was already so
the foremost, wearing a cossack cloak and lambskin cap and riding a
the forests in the province of kostromá, the land lower down the river,
the french, after crossing the bridge at vienna, were advancing in
the french and lay down their arms at the first demand.
the french dragoon was a young alsatian who spoke french with a german
the french, galloped along the front as hard as his horse could go, but
the french grenadier.
the french guns were hastily reloaded. the infantry in their blue
the french had attacked the battery and, seeing kutúzov, were firing
the french had been repulsed for the last time. and again and again in
the french had time to fire three rounds of grapeshot before the hussars
“the french have abandoned the left bank?”
the frenchman langeron, kutúzov’s incapacity, and (it was whispered)
the french onlookers and listeners laughed.
the french sentences which to them were meaningless, with an air of
the french, the spy reported, having crossed the vienna bridge, were
the french were already near. prince andrew, walking beside bagratión,
the french were firing, and he felt his heart palpitating as he rode
the french, who had ceased firing at this field strewn with dead and
the french with his whole army was impossible. the road for the french
the friends were silent. neither cared to begin talking. pierre
the frightened face and the figure could not be altered, and that
the front, but at dürrenstein, where i was, our attack began after
the front. i held my sword in my left hand, count. all our family—the
the fulfillment of duty, he rose to see some visitors off and, stroking
the full significance of the words he heard.
the game continued; a waiter kept handing round champagne.
the gates, a group of undertakers, who hid whenever a carriage drove up,
the general frowned. though there was no definite news of an austrian
the general frowned, turned away, and went on.
the general had a fit of coughing as a result of shouting and of the
the general had so wished to do this and was so sorry he had not managed
the general pleasure and disappoint everyone’s expectation. prince
the general’s face clouded, his lips quivered and trembled. he took
the generals seemed to listen reluctantly to the difficult dispositions.
the general state of affairs which was far from satisfactory.
the generals were passing by, looking as if they wished to avoid
the general, the men themselves not knowing what, or why, they were
the general... third company to the commander.” the words passed along
the general, who looked through his field glass.
the gentlemen and mademoiselle bourienne rose and the little princess,
the gentlemen around.
the gentlemen assembled at bilíbin’s were young, wealthy, gay society
the gentlemen of the tsar’s suite by his poor french.
the german closed his eyes, signifying that he did not understand.
the german landlord.
the german laughed, came out of the cowshed, pulled off his cap, and
the german village of salzeneck. the best quarters in the village were
the gesture of a man too busy to lose a moment, glanced at kutúzov and,
the girl smiled and took it. nesvítski like the rest of the men on the
the girls sprang aside. denísov hid his hairy legs under the blanket,
the gleaming icons stood a long invalid chair, and in that chair
the glory of our arms and of the day’s work, they assumed a serious
the good-natured expression still more apparent, and gazed at his friend
the good-natured iogel, flying about like a feather and bowing according
the grand cross of maria theresa, and the whole army received rewards.
the grand master began reading the statutes. they were very long, and
the grand master proposed that the last duty should be performed,
the grand master rapped with his mallet. all the masons sat down in
the gray-haired valet was sitting drowsily listening to the snoring of
the greater part of the men had to halt and an unpleasant consciousness
the greatest war there ever was, and i know nothing and am fit for
the ground, as a heavy fire had been opened on him and he was losing
the group round mortemart to listen to what was being said there, and
the guards had gone to the front; dólokhov had been reduced to the
the guards had made their whole march as if on a pleasure trip, parading
the guards to the field of battle, afraid of letting a ready victim
the guests got up and took their leave, promising to return to dinner.
the guests, knowing of the affair with the bear, looked with curiosity
the guests. to each of them he made some careless and agreeable remark
the gunners who had seized it straining to roll it quickly back to its
the hair was wet, so profusely had the child perspired. he was not dead,
the half-closed eyes was there greedily gnawing a mutton bone, and the
the hall porter, “i know count cyril vladímirovich is very ill...
the hall porter sullenly pulled a bell that rang upstairs, and turned
the hand nor a single muscle of the count’s face stirred. once more
the handsome véra smiled contemptuously but did not seem at all hurt.
the handsome véra, who produced such an irritating and unpleasant
the handsome young emperor alexander, in the uniform of the horse
the head of the column had already descended into the hollow. the clash
“the head of the garrison at glogau, with ten thousand men, asks the
the headquarters were situated two miles away from salzeneck, and
the head that he was considering this information.
the heavy standard, he ran forward with full confidence that the whole
the highest law thou shalt regain traces of the ancient dignity which
“the highest wisdom and truth are like the purest liquid we may wish
the highest wisdom has but one science—the science of the whole—the
“the highest wisdom is not founded on reason alone, not on those
the high-shouldered figure of zherkóv, familiar to the pávlograds as
the hill not to go beyond the stream, but rostóv pretended not to hear
the hofkriegsrath and both emperors took part. at that council, contrary
the hollow the less they could see but the more they felt the nearness
the homestead consisted of a threshing floor, outhouses, stables, a
the honor, but i shall never be your son’s wife.”
the honor of being received, that i have not yet had time to think of
the honor of the flag... well, never mind, it’s true i’m to blame,
“the hoof’s cracked! that’s nothing. i’ll teach you what to do
the hope of an alliance with her.
the horse guards.
the horse guards were galloping, but still holding in their horses.
the horses’ croups began to sway in the front line. rook pulled at the
“the hours are the same, and the lathe, and also the mathematics and
the house where the commander in chief was.
the hussar did not reply.
the hussar only sighed without replying and coughed angrily. the sound
the hussars.”
the hussars crowded round and responded heartily with loud shouts.
the hussar shouted back.
the hussars ran back to the men who held their horses; their voices
the ice bore him but it swayed and creaked, and it was plain that it
the ice gave way under one of the foremost soldiers, and one leg slipped
the icons and there was a pleasant scent of flowers and burnt pastilles.
the icons, as though declaring to all that she could not answer for
the icon stand. to her surprise and distress she found that her prayers
the idea of defeat and flight could not enter rostóv’s head. though
the imposing figure of nesvítski followed by his cossack, and
the infantry regiments that had been caught unawares in the outskirts
the infantry who had been stopped crowded near the bridge in the
the inhabitants of the district.
the inlaid portfolio. pierre signed the deed and after that the princess
the intellectual lights of petersburg were gathered there and, like a
their adjutants had come to witness the curious phenomenon of the
their battery a milk-white cloud arose. then came the distant report of
their bayonets and guns.
their cleanliness and discipline. they had come by easy stages, their
their conversation would probably have been different but for the effect
their courage before him.
their doubts and excite their imagination, giving them a bent for
their faces was a quiet and solemn look.
their greatcoats were ranged in lines, the sergeants major and company
their grief in their own way. the old prince would not cherish any hope:
their guns, were running toward him. he also saw french infantry
their journey. she answered him and continued her chatter.
their long hair falling over their magnificent glittering vestments,
their marriage, with bare shoulders and a languid, passionate look on
their meaning but must keep them. the second pair of man’s gloves
their musical talent, to sing something. natásha, who was treated as
their name and my own i hold out a brotherly hand to you.”
their own form of government; and i believe that once free from the
their own resources what might be needed for the success of the fete.
their places, and one of them read an exhortation on the necessity of
their sabers catching in the bridles and their spurs jingling, the
their seats, went up to “congratulate” the countess, and reached
their thick, bushy eyebrows sternly scanned all present and rested on
their way to negotiate with prince auersperg. he lets them enter the
their woman’s way! i am glad to have her. sit down and talk. about
the kitchen would have cared to eat, so anna pávlovna served up to
the landing below, philip, the footman, stood looking scared and holding
the landing. “i’d better go to my own room.”
the large drawing room. prince vasíli came up to pierre with languid
the large table covered with books and plans, the tall glass-fronted
the last of the horse guards, a huge pockmarked fellow, frowned angrily
the last of the infantry hurriedly crossed the bridge, squeezing
the last post station but one before moscow, denísov had drunk three
the last syllable of the general’s name like a frenchman, “has been
the late emperor, and was nicknamed ‘the king of prussia.’ he is
the latter began to feel that it was in bad taste to speak of his
the latter lay silent in the sleigh with closed eyes and did not answer
the left, and took up the bottle. anatole brought two candles and
the left-flank columns had already descended.
the left, the firing became more distinct. kutúzov had stopped and was
the left! wait a bit.” but the soldiers, crowded together shoulder to
the letter away, and leaning his elbows on the table he drew toward him
the letter was old, having been written before the battle at
the lieutenant never looked the man he was speaking to straight in the
“the limits of human life ... are fixed and may not be
the line of retreat on the left by the french. however inconvenient the
the lines and an adjutant ran to look for the missing officer.
the line that had so sharply divided the two armies?” he asked himself
the little kitten, feasting her eyes on him, seemed ready at any moment
    * the little one is charming.
the little princess and mademoiselle bourienne had already received
the little princess did not, or did not wish to, hear his words. she was
the little princess during the whole discussion and the rest of
the little princess entered the room. the passage broke off in the
the little princess got up, rang for the maid, and hurriedly and merrily
the little princess grumbled to her maid that her bed was badly made.
the little princess had also left the tea table and followed hélène.
the little princess had grown stouter during this time, but her eyes
the little princess, kissing her. “i know you already through my
the little princess lay in the armchair, mademoiselle bourienne chafing
the little princess lay supported by pillows, with a white cap on her
the little princess, like an old war horse that hears the trumpet,
the little princess. she felt, as courtiers do when the tsar enters, the
the little princess, taking the dress from the maid, came up to princess
the little princess talked incessantly, her short, downy upper lip
the little princess went round the table with quick, short, swaying
the little town could be seen with its white, red-roofed houses, its
the liveliness of a fourteen-year-old boy, and yet it was the face
the lively song gave a special flavor to the tone of free and easy
the living charm of her neck and shoulders, so near to his lips that
the living from the dead lies uncertainty, suffering, and death. and
the lodge, told the password, and at last was permitted to sit down.
the long german carts six or more pale, dirty, bandaged men were being
the look she felt upon her made that world still more poetic. but
“the lord be thanked, yes!”
the loss of prince andrew had reached bald hills, and in spite of the
them.”
the magnificent reception room was crowded. everyone stood up
the maintenance of the balance of power of europe, and it would save the
them. all eyes fastened involuntarily on this french column advancing
the manager of all his affairs, and while looking with pleasure at the
them. and among all these faces that he found so tedious, none seemed
them, and reads those from the emperor addressed to others. ‘ah! so
them, and she doubts the means we have of gaining them. that is the
them, and understood that it was useless and even cruel to insist.
the manly voice again interrupted the artillery officer.
the man was wearing a bluish coat of broadcloth, he had no knapsack
the march: in their greatcoats, and packs, and without any preparation
them are harmful, especially the women. yes, dear boy,” he continued,
    * the marshalls.
the mason cleared his throat huskily, as old men do, and called his
the mason did not move and for a long time said nothing after this
the mason looked intently at pierre and smiled as a rich man with
the mason remained silent for a long time, evidently considering.
the mason’s arguments; he dreaded not to be able to believe in him.
the mason smiled with his gentle fatherly smile.
the mason. “yes, i never thought of it, but i have led a contemptible
“the master is not in, he’s gone to headquarters,” said
the matter depended on my personal wishes, the will of his majesty the
the mazurka, which was just coming into fashion, were danced. iogel had
them curiosity, awe, and even love—a supercilious consciousness of
them down! what?...” said rostóv, waking up. at the moment he opened
“the means are ... the balance of power in europe and the rights of
the meeting was at an end, and on reaching home pierre felt as if he had
the member of the hofkriegsrath looked at him severely but, seeing the
the members and guests of the club wandered hither and thither, sat,
the memory of a remote event long past.
the men and officers returning spoke of a brilliant victory, of the
the men and women had separated as in church. all were silently crossing
the men (the commanders, as we saw at the council of war, were out of
them from others was the absence of host or hostess and the presence of
them from the other end of the corridor, strauch, an austrian general
them!” he reflected.
the middle of a field without rhyme or reason. it’s all those damned
the midwife was already on her way to meet her, rubbing her small, plump
them. if he is not rich i will give her the means; i will ask my
the mildness of his features, was all the greater. rostóv was happy
the military governor of moscow, who had been assiduous in sending
the mines and blow up the bridge, this sergeant, seeing that the french
the minister and his son had arrived, but the appearance of both had
the minister of war.”
the minister of war but also his most august majesty the emperor and
them in the thick fog, the russians exchanged shots with the enemy
the mist, and his cold face wore that special look of confident,
the mist. from information he had received the evening before, from the
them it was difficult to get out again. one was shouting, “get on!
them, neither do i condemn them. only it seems to me that christian
them now! and yet really the anxiety is greater now than the joy. one is
them off, inviting them all to dinner.
the moment he heard the firing and the cry from behind, the general
the moment is not bonaparte but buxhöwden. general buxhöwden was all
the moment prince andrew entered the room had watched him with glad,
the more depressed.
them or make them move. on the one hand, the chief steward put the state
the morning, carriages with six horses had been coming and going
the morning of the twentieth, when the memorable battle of austerlitz
the morning she told the rostóvs and all her acquaintances the details
     * the most fascinating woman in petersburg.
the mother smoothed the folds of her dyed silk dress before a large
the mothers, wives, and children of the men who were going and should
them pierre noticed a large cast iron ring with a seal representing a
them—remained for a while without any definite opinion on the subject
them rest and leisure?” said pierre, hurrying and lisping. “and
themselves and grow more and more miserable.”
themselves, and the reading of the church service, the subdued chanting
themselves quite innocent, and since that day when he was overpowered
themselves, stifle this remorse and grow callous, as a result of being
themselves to túshin in all their horror. he had been so excited that
them something funny and kept them amused, while he watched the young
them strangely of the little princess. but what was still stranger,
them taking off his cap) “from his animal condition and awaken in him
them the order to march, thereby indicating that he intended to lead
the mud off his face with his sleeve. “perched up there, you’re more
them, when suddenly, clinking his spurs and spreading out his legs,
then....”
then a general rode past shouting something angrily, not in russian.
then a gleam of bayonets; to the left beyond the village similar masses
“then allow me to express your regrets, and i am sure your opponent
then all will be right, as our bear huntsman at kostromá used to tell
“then am i to order those large sterlets?” asked the steward.
then appointed to supervise the enrollment decreed throughout russia.
then a thin, pale soldier, his neck bandaged with a bloodstained leg
the nations? adorable! it is enough to make one’s head whirl! it is as
then believe an expert. i have just been talking to dmítri onúfrich”
then both voices together with glad intonations, and then footsteps.
then, brothers, on to glory, led by father kámenski.” this song had
then brought back to the general circle.
then detached ideas and impressions from the world of reality shot
the nearest soldiers shrank back, the gun driver stopped his horse, but
the new campo formio are to be drawn up.”
the newcomer was a short, large-boned, yellow-faced, wrinkled old
the new homestead he was constructing and its buildings, but even here,
the news of count bezúkhov’s death reached us before your letter
the next day the emperor stopped at wischau, and villier, his physician,
then he did everything so simply and with such assurance!) mademoiselle
then he recalled the coarseness and bluntness of her thoughts and the
then he remained silent for a while, and all at once looked cheerfully
the night he received the news, kutúzov sent bagratión’s vanguard,
the night ten miles from olmütz and next morning were to come straight
the night was dark but starry, the road showed black in the snow that
the night was foggy and through the fog the moonlight gleamed
“then i’ll have it brought round,” said rostóv wishing to avoid
“then i may reckon on it, your excellency?”
“then it is certain?” said the prince.
then named prince vasíli in an inquiring whisper, then pointed to the
then nicholas sang a song he had just learned:
the noblest role on earth, and he is so virtuous and noble that god will
the nonsense talked by the austrian generals. shinshín, standing close
the novelty anna pávlovna was setting before her guests that evening
then particularly strong.
then quickly glanced at dólokhov and, bending his finger as he had been
then she slipped down among the flowerpots on the other side of the tubs
then she smiled again and clutched prince vasíli’s arm more tightly.
then suddenly he realized the joyful significance of that wail; tears
then, suddenly spread out in the sunlight, far-distant objects could
then that same face pale, quivering, and suffering, as it had been when
then the voice said something more, demyán replied, and the steps in
“then they’ve not gone to bed yet? what do you think? mind now,
“then tomorrow you will speak to the emperor?”
the nurse, as she stood in one of the doorways.
the nurse brought it to him and nodded approval when she told him that
the nurse lit the gilt candles before the icons and sat down by the door
the nursery, but sónya was not there either. natásha concluded that
“then what is this blood on the gun carriage?” inquired túshin.
“then when am i to have it?”
“then why are you here? you should have gone on long ago, now you
then with remarks which showed that he was in a good temper.
then with the unerring official memory that characterized him he
then, wostóv, now then!”
“then you are serving?”
the officer flourished his arm and hastily rode away.
the officer glanced at him, and without replying turned again to the
the officers and men of denísov’s squadron, though they tried to talk
the officers as he went: “have these gentlemen attended to and taken
the officers gathered round denísov’s canteen, eating and talking.
the officers got up and stood round the cossacks and their prisoner.
the officers laughed.
the officers or adjutants who wandered about in the fog in those unknown
the official side of the service. these gentlemen received prince
the old aunt received the two young people in her corner, but seemed
the old count cast down his eyes on hearing his son’s words and began
the old countess, not letting go of his hand and kissing it every
the old count pretended to be angry.
the old count, the countess, pétya, véra, natásha, and sónya, and
the old lady.
the old man made a departure from his usual routine in honor of his
the old man turned angrily away.
the old man was in a good temper after his nap before dinner. (he
the old man was silent.
the old prince did not sleep either. tíkhon, half asleep, heard him
the old prince dressed leisurely in his study, frowning and considering
the old prince first heard of the defeat at austerlitz stated, as usual
the old prince knew that if he told his daughter she was making a
the old prince’s face.
the old princess came in and also wept. the elderly lady was using
the old princess did not reply, she was tormented by jealousy of her
the old prince stopped writing and, as if not understanding, fixed his
the old prince. “very, very glad to have seen you,” repeated he,
the old prince was very affectionate and careful in his treatment of
the one that will result from it will be as victorious! however, dear
(the one who had paraded his regiment before kutúzov at braunau) that
the onlookers, “will it be long? are things ready?”
“the only thing that is hard for me... i will tell you the truth,
the only young people remaining in the drawing room, not counting the
the orderlies looked at him as if they wished to impress on him that a
the orders were to abandon the wounded, many of them dragged themselves
the order was given to halt and down knapsacks.
the other clutched his drooping pistol. his face was pale. rostóv ran
the other committeemen. “there will be many toasts, it’s time to
the other, glanced inquiringly with his large, intelligent, kindly eyes
the other men in the room, her anxiety could only have reference to
the other, quite a new reflection of the society in which they had taken
the others. again someone shouted, “stretchers!” four men seized the
the others but win from you. or are you afraid of me?” he asked again.
the other side of the fire, warming his thin yellow body.
the other side of the room. “how young-looking he is!”
the other—who with beaming faces had come to see their master making
the pack. much depended on rostóv’s winning or losing on that seven
the pained expression his joke had brought to his sister’s face, he
the party of the young had triumphed. the voices of those who counseled
“the past always seems good,” said he, “but did not suvórov
the patches grew deeper on her forehead, neck, and cheeks. she tried to
the pathetic importance of these last moments of meeting between the
“the pávlograd hussars?” he inquired.
the pávlograd hussars were stationed two miles from braunau. the
the people,” the abbé was saying. “it is only necessary for one
the people who know of it the less a woman in travail suffers, everyone
“the picket is still on the hill, your excellency, just where it was
the pine forests veiled in the mist of their summits... there was peace
the place of mourning for the younger female generation in the rostóv
the plan of operation for the coming campaign. he explained how an army,
the pleasure of spending the evening with you.”
the point of view of the old countess and of society it was out of the
the portfolio so firmly that it was plain she would not let go easily.
the possessor of wealth. how have you used it? what have you done
the postilion started, the carriage wheels rattled. prince hippolyte
the postmaster came in and began obsequiously to beg his excellency to
the postmaster, his wife, the valet, and a peasant woman selling
the povarskáya, so well known to all moscow. the countess herself and
“the praise of a great commander is a soldier’s highest reward,”
the pre-eminence.
the priests and deacons and some servants also went in at the door.
the priests, rose and offered him her seat; an aide-de-camp picked up
the priest with a goose feather anointed the boy’s little red and
the prim visitor could not help joining in.
the prince again laughed his frigid laugh.
the prince answered nothing, but she looked at him significantly,
the prince bowed his head and went up to the porch. “god be
the prince bowed to signify his respect and gratitude.
the prince gave orders that no one should leave his post. now you,
the prince looked at his daughter’s frightened face and snorted.
the princess.
the princess and hastily adjusting his lorgnette, as if without this
the princess bent over the exercise book on the table.
the princess blushed, and raised her arms with a gesture of despair.
the princess continued to look at him without moving, and with the same
the princess did not fall down or faint. she was already pale, but on
the princess did not reply. their efforts in the struggle for the
the princess did speak, her words would not be flattering to anna
the princess’ eyes grew dim, she could not see and could not hear
the princess gave a wrong answer.
the princess gave no reply and did not even smile, but left the room as
the princess glanced at her watch and, seeing that she was five minutes
the princess, holding her little dog on her lap with her thin bony
the princess let go.
the princess listened, smiling.
the princess looked in a scared way at her father’s eyes glittering
the princess, now quite changed. “and what does she come worming
the princess, picking up her dress, was taking her seat in the dark
the princess pondered awhile with a thoughtful smile and her luminous
the princess rested her bare round arm on a little table and considered
the princess said nothing, but suddenly her short downy lip quivered.
the princess sank helplessly into an armchair beside her father and
the princess saw that her father regarded the matter with disapproval,
the princess smiled as people do who think they know more about the
the princess smiled. she rose with the same unchanging smile with which
the princess started. evidently pierre’s words touched her to the
the princess went up to the door, passed by it with a dignified and
the princess, who had a straight, rigid body, abnormally long for her
the princess wished to rise, but the prince held her by the hand. she
the prince sternly; “i’m afraid you write much nonsense. i’ll read
the prince stopped. he saw the effect these words had produced on his
the prince turned round to the overseer and fixed his eyes on him,
the prince was lying on the sofa, looked at him, noticed his perturbed
the prince was silent and looked indifferent. but, with the womanly and
the prince, who was in his large study. from the far side of the house
the project gutenberg ebook of war and peace, by leo tolstoy
the prussian army and was aide-de-camp to a very important personage.
the puhse?” he asked, turning to rostóv.
the purse is here! i’ll flay this scoundwel alive, and it will be
the question arose whether the troops were to be in marching order or
the quiet home life and peaceful happiness of bald hills presented
the ranks.
the ranks, and above all being unable to see anything in front or around
the ranks of obscure officers and offer him the first step to fame!
the ras...” he did not finish.
“the rat”) he said, rubbing his forehead and whole face with both
there.
there.”
there any hope?”
there are no difficulties in your way.... but nicholas is my cousin...
“there are precedents, i may mention schwarzenberg.”
“there are so many prisoners today, nearly the whole russian army,
there are things in it difficult for the feeble human mind to grasp, it
the rearguard and have an eye on the order of retreat, “which is also
the rearguard by the commander in chief, was sitting on the trail of a
the rearguard stood with a staff officer, scanning the country through
there as he. and now—this duel! have these people no feeling, or
the reception room, where he found some ten officers and generals.
the recruiting, granted by the emperor. if i had been two hours late
“there, fedótov, you should be quartered on them!”
(the reflection was still incomplete), he caught himself smiling and was
therefore met with unaltered looks the angrily inquisitive expression of
therefore offered this truce to avoid unnecessary bloodshed. count
therefore—this is between ourselves—i instinctively feel that we
therefore you seek wisdom and virtue. is that not so?” said the
the regimental adjutant came in and confirmed the news brought by
the regimental commander, flushing, ran to his horse, seized the stirrup
the regimental commander, going up to the line himself, ordered the
the regimental commander on horseback and some ten men of his company,
(the regimental commander’s face now that the inspection was happily
the regimental commander sought out dólokhov in the ranks and, reining
the regimental commander was afraid he might be blamed for this and did
the regiment, and how satisfied his father was with him. berg evidently
the regiment broke up into companies, which went to their appointed
the regiment i’d... ah well, i’ll show that in action, and for me
the regiment kutúzov had reviewed at braunau and in which dólokhov was
the regiment under a hail of bullets which fell around, but fortunately
there, god only knows what would have happened! you know, uncle promised
there had been actions at lambach, amstetten, and melk; but despite the
“there he is!” said borís, thinking rostóv had said “his
there?” he said, turning to the door as he heard a tread of heavy
“there... he’s puffing again,” muttered túshin to himself, as a
there in which he had now no part could perturb him. he shut his eyes,
there is hardly time to put in action—seeing pierre, touched his
“there is in moscow a lady, une dame, and she is very stingy. she must
“there is nothing so refreshing after a sleepless night as a cup
“there is one thing i constantly pray god to grant, mon cousin,” she
there is only mademoiselle bourienne....”
“there is something nasty, something wrong, in the feeling she excites
“there is something up,” thought nicholas, and he was further
there is so much happiness; but here... groans, suffering, fear, and
“there is still much, much before us,” he said, as if with an old
“there is still time, my dear. you must remember, catiche, that it was
“there, it’s just as i thought,” said rostóv to himself. “he
“there, leave bruin alone; here’s a bet on.”
the remains of langeron’s and dokhtúrov’s mingled forces were
the remains of our regiment which had been in action rapidly formed up
there many more of you to come?”
“there now! confess that this is delightful,” said he. “this
“there now! didn’t i tell you, michael mítrich, that if it was said
“there now! it’s true that all you women are crybabies,” remarked
“there now, prince! we can’t stop those fellows,” said the staff
“there now!” said the officer of the suite, “that’s
“there now!... so you, too, are in the great world?” said he to
“there now, the kúrskies have also gone past,” was being said in
there. now then!”
“there now, you wish to liberate your serfs,” he continued; “that
“there now, zíkin, they ought to put you on a horse. you’d look
there. pierre had the air of a man preoccupied with considerations which
the report of musketry.
the report which had been circulated that the austrians had been beaten
the reproachful tone of a man who has repeated the same thing more
“the reserves, sire!” replied a voice, a very human one compared to
there, she glided up to him with a sort of amble, not exactly bowing yet
“there’s no need to talk! he receives his orders and will marry you
“there’s nothing for me to understand,” she cried out with
“there’s nothing to be gay about,” answered bolkónski.
the resounding strains of the polonaise:
“there’s plenty to do still.”
there’s some mistake,” thought he. “they can’t have wanted to
the rest.”
“there’s the corner at the crossroads, where the cabman, zakhár,
the rest of his life.
the rest of the evening.
there! tea!”
there. then, as happens to people of weak character, he desired so
“there, there! do you feel it? i feel so strange. and do you know,
“there! they are bringing another!” cried one of the officers,
the retreat from austerlitz, where he alone had withdrawn his column
the retreat of the frightened bonaparte.
the revolving pulleys whirr with the rapidity of their movement, but a
there was a crush. halfway across stood prince nesvítski, who had
there was a general movement as the princess, smiling and talking
there was generally a drinking bout, finishing with visits of a kind
there was no answer to any of these questions, except one, and that
there was no laughter in the maids’ large hall. in the men servants’
there was none he would so much like to have for a friend as that very
there was no one beyond the ditch now. only some carts and carriages
there was no one in the hall. “oh god! is everyone all right?”
there was no reason why it should not reach the pávlograd regiment,
there was not a trace of agitation on his face. with delicate irony he
there was nothing between the squadron and the enemy, and again that
there was nothing to be said, and neither wished to give occasion for
there was now no one in the reception room except prince vasíli and the
there was really nothing to be seen in front except a barren descent
there was something peculiar about it, quite unsoldierly, rather comic,
there was still the same bewitching combination of majesty and mildness
there were in the room a child’s cot, two boxes, two armchairs, a
“there, what egotists men all are: all, all egotists! just for a whim
“there will be a council of war at kutúzov’s tonight, though; you
the rhetor but pierre’s sponsor, willarski, whom he recognized by his
the rhetor cleared his throat, crossed his gloved hands on his breast,
the rhetor, “is an emblem of something not cognizable by the senses
the ribs and telling him to hold his hand up. soldiers scattered over
the right and sent an adjutant to the dragoons with orders to attack the
the right flank and the french were already advancing, were engaged
the right they will expose a flank to me. soldiers! i will myself direct
the rivers inn (at braunau) and traun (near linz). on october 23 the
the road he reined in his horse, hesitating whether to ride along it or
the room, and seeming not to notice the chairs was dashing straight at
the room, pondering over his vicious past, and with a rapturous sense
the room was crowded with small pieces of furniture, whatnots,
the rostóvs knew everybody in moscow. the old count had money enough
the rostóvs since the day of his departure for the army. to be in anna
the russian army) are nothing compared to what this man has been doing
the russian emperor’s aide-de-camp is an impostor. officers are
the russian officer in charge of the transport lolled back in the front
the russians were running away and that he himself was killed, but he
the russian with his heir the tsarévich, and the austrian with the
the rustle of a woman’s dress was heard in the next room. prince
the sale of the land and forests and to release them from the land bank,
the salute and unable to repress the smile of delight induced by his
the same happy, rapturous faces turned to the shaggy figure of denísov.
the same, then why this duel, this murder? either i shall kill him, or
the same time, my honored benefactor,” wrote prince vasíli. “my son
the same words, about their health and her own, and the health of her
the score against him reached the fateful sum of forty-three thousand.
the scoundrels!”
the scraping of chairs. then one of those conversations began which last
the seal of her letter. it was from her most intimate friend from
the seat indicated to him beside the fair hélène and listened to the
the second princess had just come from the sickroom with her eyes red
these gentlemen ride onto the bridge alone and wave white handkerchiefs;
these,” he said, handing him several papers, “make a neat memorandum
these latter the butler thrust mysteriously forward, wrapped in a
these poignant joys and sorrows. you are fortunate, for the latter are
the sergeant major with brightened expressions, licking their lips and
the sergeant to meet some mounted men who were riding along the line.
the serious faces of those around, remembered all he had already gone
these rooms. anna mikháylovna, addressing a maid who was hurrying past
the servant brought back his tumbler turned upside down, * with an
the servant handed him a book which pierre took to be a devotional work,
the service and patriotically russian. he resented shinshín’s remark.
the service before everything. thanks, thanks!” and he went on
these same questions which he could not solve and yet could not cease to
these sights and sounds had no depressing or intimidating effect on him;
these things. i absolutely must see him, however painful it may be for
these words he repeated to everyone without exception or variation, and
the shed with super human force, throwing up a mass of earth. the ground
the shirt.
the sick man was so surrounded by doctors, princesses, and servants
the sight of the killed and wounded.
the silence lasted some time. prince bagratión, apparently not wishing
the sinews and scorching the flesh of his sprained arm and shoulder. to
the sky, the dawn merging with the afterglow of sunset, was visible.
the sly what was left in the glasses. from the third room came sounds of
the smell of linstocks, came the artillery which crawled between the
the smoke, rostóv hesitated whether to gallop after them or to go where
the snow, greedily bit at it, again raised his head, adjusted himself,
“the snow is deep. i am having the avenue swept, your honor.”
the sofa. the princess came in. she had changed her gown for a house
the soldier always has around him the same comrades, the same ranks, the
the soldiers crowded against one another with terrified faces, and
the soldiers’ faces and unnatural warlike solemnity on those of the
the soldiers laughed. a moment later, an adjutant arrived with the same
“the soldiers say it feels easier without boots,” said captain
the soldiers who had carried prince andrew had noticed and taken the
the soldier to whom the laughers referred was dólokhov. prince andrew
the soldier. “turn back with your slut!”
the son, lowering his eyes, followed her quietly.
the son, or pierre, whom it had been pitiful to see, so stricken was he
the son sighed, thus admitting that his father had understood him. the
the sound of musketry at the foot of the hill, now diminishing, now
the sound of voices and the shouts of command. the whole air reeked with
the southern spring, the comfortable rapid traveling in a vienna
“the sovereigns? i do not speak of russia,” said the vicomte, polite
the special deep cooing tone, precluding the possibility of interrupting
the spectators by the unexpectedness of his adroit maneuvers and
the spot chosen for the duel was some eighty paces from the road,
the spot indicated to him. he made no reply on his father’s favorite
the squadron crossed the bridge and drew out of range of fire without
the squadron in which rostóv was serving had scarcely time to mount
“the squadron quartermaster!” said lavrúshka.
“the squadwon can’t pass,” shouted váska denísov, showing his
the staff captain.
the staff captain, “but we old fellows, who have grown up in and, god
the staff captain in his deep bass, calmly stroking his long mustache.
the staff captain, kírsten, had twice been reduced to the ranks for
the staff captain’s voice began to tremble. “you have been in the
the staff officer and prince andrew mounted their horses and rode on.
the staff officer on duty.
the staff officer remained behind and prince andrew rode on alone.
the standard.
the state of the prussian army. as soon as he had finished she turned to
“the step must be taken but i cannot, i cannot!” thought pierre,
the steward did not say it was quite impossible, but suggested selling
the stewards (there were semiliterate foremen among them) listened with
the still greater unimportance of death, the meaning of which no one
the stores are empty, the roads impassable. the orthodox begin looting,
the story was very pretty and interesting, especially at the point
the stranger’s face was not genial, it was even cold and severe, but
the stretchers, and love of the sun and of life, all merged into one
the stretchers moved on. at every jolt he again felt unendurable pain;
the struggling men, and the fate of the red-haired gunner, who had
the study, like pistol shots, came the frequent sound of the old man
the stupid smile, which had left his face while he was speaking,
the subject of her request and must not be shown before the request was
the suite pointed out to bagratión a french column that was outflanking
the sutlers. on receiving borís’ letter he rode with a fellow officer
the table in a merry mood, sitting down now by one, now by another, of
the table, onto which he threw it.
the table, screened by a bound music book so that the light did not fall
the table, searched everywhere, and stood still in the middle of the
the table, summoned his daughter. he never gave his children a blessing,
the table which was scrawled over with figures, wet with spilled wine,
the tall, fair-haired general buxhöwden stood, leaning his back against
the tears from his eyes and from the letter, then having dried her
the temperature shown by the political thermometer to the company that
the termination of the ceremony. he looked up joyfully at the baby when
the third!”
the third company was the last, and kutúzov pondered, apparently trying
the third division and convinced himself that there really were no
the third group was gathered round mortemart and anna pávlovna.
the third interruption came when prince andrew was finishing his
“the third, i said the third!” cried the prince abruptly, pushing
the third time the rhetor came back more quickly and asked pierre
the three voices, hers, mademoiselle bourienne’s, and katie’s, who
the thuerassa, he merely saves us a great deal of trouble and all our
the time had come to experience the joy of an attack of which he had so
the tipsy guests who were again crowding round the window, and listening
the torzhók peddler woman, in a whining voice, went on offering her
the town where the headquarters and the diplomatic corps were stationed
the traveler was joseph alexéevich bazdéev, as pierre saw from the
the tremor of the speaker’s voice—which sometimes almost broke—or
the troops again began to move, and two battalions of the nóvgorod and
the troops in their disorderly flight confirmed these rumors.
the troops of the vanguard were stationed before wischau, within sight
the troops were running in such a dense mass that once surrounded by
the tsar!”
the tsar addressed the officers also: “i thank you all, gentlemen, i
the tsar heard but obviously did not like the reply; he shrugged his
the tsar looked intently and observantly into kutúzov’s eye
the tsar said something more which rostóv did not hear, and the
the tsar stopped a few minutes in front of the hussars as if undecided.
the tsar with another glance at the emperor francis, as if inviting
the tverskáya street rode the hussar with mustaches... i thought about
the two generals and the adjutant took hold of the field glass, trying
the two ladies, addressing prince vasíli and pointing to an inlaid
the two pávlograd squadrons, having crossed the bridge, retired up the
the two young men, the student and the officer, friends from childhood,
the unknown general looked disdainfully down at kozlóvski, who was
“the unpleasant things were said to me,” remarked véra, “i said
the unsolved problem that tormented him was caused by hints given by the
the uselessness of freeing the serfs, who were quite happy as it was.
the valley. the fourth column, with which kutúzov was, stood on the
the very time he was expressing this conviction to himself, in another
the vicomte appreciated this silent praise and smiling gratefully
the vicomte bowed and smiled courteously in token of his willingness to
“the vicomte knew the duc personally,” whispered anna pávlovna to
the vicomte merely shrugged his shoulders. pierre looked solemnly at his
the vicomte’s story. prince vasíli’s words frightened her, an
the vicomte told his tale very neatly. it was an anecdote, then current,
the vicomte was a nice-looking young man with soft features and polished
the vicomte who was meeting him for the first time saw clearly that
the vicomte wished to begin his story and gave a subtle smile.
the village again, but túshin’s guns could not move, and the
the village letting the troops pass by him. that morning kutúzov seemed
the visitor, compelled to look on at this family scene, thought it
the visitor made a gesture with her hand.
the visitor, not knowing what to say, shook her head.
the visitors, and before the visitors i tell you that in future you are
the waiter.
the wall, his eyes fixed on a burning candle, and seemed not to listen
the war is over, that the emperor francis is arranging a meeting with
the war was flaming up and nearing the russian frontier. everywhere one
the water, and approaches the tête-de-pont. at length appears the
the wax with the baby’s hair had not sunk in the font but had floated.
the way from ulm, while dólokhov maintained that the russians had not
the way he walked through the ranks behind the generals, bending forward
the weather had cleared again since noon and the sun was descending
the weight of his knapsack.
the well-known prince bolkónski who had to retire from the army under
the whole day was finally and indubitably answered in the affirmative.
the whole human race, offering it in our members an example of piety
the whole interest was concentrated on rostóv. instead of sixteen
the whole matter and decide what was right and how he should act, but
the whole place were dragging logs and brushwood and were building
the whole story of life. you talk of bonaparte and his career,” said
“the wife!” said the old prince, briefly and significantly.
the wild set led by dólokhov. zherkóv had met dólokhov abroad as a
the will and letter will be delivered to the emperor, and the petition
“the will will show that, my dear; our fate also depends on it.”
the wind.
the wind had fallen and black clouds, merging with the powder smoke,
the window sill, but refrained from touching it. pierre again covered
the woman he had known as a child, of whom when her beauty was mentioned
the woman’s vehicle for trying to get ahead of others, and the strokes
the women.”
the word of command rang out, and again the regiment quivered, as with a
the words of the order were not clear to the regimental commander, and
the worst,” said the austrian general, evidently wishing to have done
“the wound is not here, it is there!” said kutúzov, pressing the
they all had but one wish: to advance as soon as possible against the
they all separated, but, except anatole who fell asleep as soon as he
they all were, or seemed to be, pretty—so rapturous were their smiles
they are beaten, flogged, or sent to siberia, i don’t suppose they are
“they are regular brigands, especially dólokhov,” replied the
they assure the officer on duty that they, the marshals, are on
they became silent, and pierre thought he saw the princess hide
they both felt happy). “we had our hands full last night. however, i
“they can’t be far off, probably just beyond the stream,” he said
“they coax me as if i were váska the cat!” said denísov jokingly.
they contain; for how can we, miserable sinners that we are, know the
they could not fail to vanquish anyone, be it whom it might: so thought
they dismounted and entered the tent. several officers, with flushed and
“they don’t even give one time to dwink!” answered váska
they do the guns.”
they entered the elegant, newly decorated, and luxurious dining room.
they entered the large hall, from which one of the doors led to the
they gave her an attraction more powerful than that of beauty. but the
“they give little hope,” replied the prince.
they got into the carriage and drove for a few minutes in silence.
they had entered moscow.
they had gone by, the same stream of soldiers followed, with the same
they had lifted the dying man and were moving him.
they had looked at the regimental commander, seeming by their expression
they had not met for nearly half a year and, being at the age when young
they had when she was not thinking of herself. as with everyone, her
they halted in silence. there was nothing fresh to be seen from the
“they have gone to bed and put out their lights, your excellency.”
they’ll ransack that castle,” he remarked with evident approval.
they’ll say so again and again, and that will be the end of it. my
“they march splendidly,” remarked someone in bagratión’s suite.
“they might call a halt here or we’ll have to do another four miles
“they must be feeling dull, too,” said one of the bolder officers,
they must look somewhere, or it meant too much. pierre hesitated,
they named the colonel, prince repnín.
the younger emperor could not restrain his wish to be present at the
the young man, flattered, sat down nearer to her with a coquettish
the young man had departed. “there is never any ‘impossible’ with
“the young man’s a real hussar!” shouted the colonel, again
the young people, at the countess’ instigation, gathered round the
the young princess bolkónskaya had brought some work in a
the young prince. the members of the household were all gathered in the
the youth and inexperience of the sovereign, who had trusted worthless
they quite understood one another as to the first part of their romance,
“they’re always in love with someone,” he thought of sónya and
“they received me and my news as one receives a dog in a game of
they’re coming!” alarmed voices were heard, and a stir of final
“they’re coming!... they’re coming!... stand aside, make way,
they rode up the opposite hill. from there the french could already be
they rose from the table and sat down in the entrance porch which served
“they say pierre is quite broken by his misfortune.”
“they say the ball will be very good,” replied the princess, drawing
they seemed of them, one could feel by the occasional glances they gave
they seized him by his arms; but he was so strong that everyone who
they stood silent, facing one another. the old man’s sharp eyes were
they too could, like natásha and borís, escape from the drawing room.
“they’ve been saying so a long while,” said the count, “and
they went out and walked about till dinnertime, talking of the political
they went through the porch and into the stable. the lieutenant
they went up to the door of the sitting room from which came the sound
they were again silent.
they were as usual laughing.
they were firing at could not be seen for the smoke which there was no
“they were in a hurry enough to start us, and now here we stand in
they were in the carriage. “he hardly recognizes anybody.”
they were saying was amusing, but because she felt happy and was unable
“they were there this evening, but now i don’t know, your
they would have remained there for a long time testing each other’s
they would not for an instant let his shoulder move a hair’s breadth.
thick, bushy eyebrows. prince andrew went up and kissed his father on
thick-set general with grizzled eyebrows and whiskers, and wider from
thin face. her eyes, always sad, now looked with particular hopelessness
thin face was now quivering with nervous excitement; his eyes, in which
thing.”
thing can be arranged. it shall be on your family’s behalf that i’ll
thing he would have to unite his fate with hers. he might perhaps have
thing i have faith in! our good and wonderful sovereign has to perform
things and supper dishes stood in disorder, and in the middle of the
things,” and the skin over his left temple puckered, “either you
things, but austria never has wished, and does not wish, for war. she
things had to be. from the passage they went into a large, dimly
things he should have shown it sooner, but he lets it go on for months.
things. she did not reply, but looked at her seriously.
things that had never occurred. mademoiselle bourienne also shared them
things that he has been expelled by the police.”
things the old count sent to his son.
thing we are interested in here,” said the spirit of the place.
think could hardly be found nowadays—but is she contented with her
think, count? the next day it was not even mentioned in the orders of
thinking about you. why are you going?”
thinking? i mustn’t forget. how shall i speak to the emperor? no,
thinking of?” she went on, turning to prince hippolyte. “fetch me my
think it over. go! yes or no, yes or no, yes or no!” he still shouted
think so yourself. and the main thing is,” he continued, “that i
think that he is your father ... perhaps in the agony of death.” she
think the regiment is not a bad one, eh?”
think we thoroughly understand.
“think what you please! i know you are just like father. think as
thin lips interrupted weyrother, wishing to say something. but the
third company he suddenly stopped. his suite, not having expected this,
“thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen,” she counted on her slender
thirteen look at the boy they are in love with and have just kissed for
thirtieth he attacked mortier’s division, which was on the left bank,
thirty,” said he, looking at shinshín and the count with a joyful,
this action was so unlike her usual composure and the fear depicted on
this active old servant was unpacking the traveler’s canteen and
this answer. “have you sought for means of attaining your aim in
this battle, which consisted in the capture of a french squadron, was
this black-eyed, wide-mouthed girl, not pretty but full of life—with
this bone—a bill for thirty thousand rubles—to the poor princess
this buonaparte has turned all their heads; they all think of how he
this?” but these doubts only lasted a moment. pierre glanced at
this card and i’ll take my cap and drive home to supper with denísov,
this consciousness of mismanagement became a general conviction, but as
this defect was not due to any fault of the regimental commander, for
this disorder,” he muttered. “do as you like.”
this door led into a back anteroom. an old man, a servant of the
this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost
this expectation did not upset the regular routine of life in the old
this expression evidently pleased him.
this fact ought to give prince vasíli much satisfaction.
this guardsman would certainly have bowled rostóv and his bedouin over
this heart, so kind and generous? say ‘perhaps’... the future is so
this he’ll soon have us, too, for his subjects! how are you?” and he
this holiday time. “seize the moments of happiness, love and be loved!
this house and in brünn itself. i want to entertain him as far as i
this indecision appeared to him majestic and enchanting, like everything
this information, the little princess and mademoiselle bourienne, whose
this instant!” thought rostóv.
this is absolutely true.
“this is absurd! come, let go i tell you.”
“this is all very fine, but things must be settled,” said prince
    * “this is a pleasure one gets in camp, prince.”
“this is dólokhov,” said prince andrew.
“this is for borís from me, for his outfit.”
“this is not at all the thing,” he said. “what sort of polish
this is the battle of pultúsk, which is considered a great victory but
“this is the first act. those that follow are naturally increasingly
“this is what i think. austria has been made a fool of, and she is
“this is what i want, my dear fellow,” said the count to the
this is what i was proud of! i then thought that i did not understand
this lowest-grade greeting, a look of anxiety and fear, as at the sight
this magnanimity bonaparte subsequently repaid by death.
this marriage. he recalled her former words and looks and the words
this may be my only chance of seeing the emperor. it won’t be long
this meant that tíkhon was not handing him the waistcoat he wanted.
this misery, and money, and dólokhov, and anger, and honor—it’s all
this moment of happy, rapturous excitement. she gazed at him, not taking
this murderer and villain! we alone must avenge the blood of the just
this name day of hers had been one of the pleasantest she had ever had.
this poetic and pure intimacy, were what my heart needed. but enough of
this reinforcement.
this resemblance he was exceedingly ugly. his features were like his
this same room was dimly lighted by two candles. on one small table tea
this short man had on a white leather apron which covered his chest and
this short man nodded to dolgorúkov as to an intimate friend and stared
this silence was broken by one of the brethren, who led pierre up to the
this speech how they could best handle the master for their own ends.
this strange incident, and then shrugging his shoulders went to the door
this strong, brave man, this model son and officer that, judging by this
this table with the thought of winning a hundred rubles to buy that
this! the chief news, about which all moscow gossips, is the death of
this uncertainty and hurry... there—they are shouting again, and
this unpleasant impression merely flitted over the young and happy face
this very sentence about countess zúbova and this same laugh prince
this victory to the austrian court, now no longer at vienna (which was
this—want glory, want to be known to men, want to be loved by them, it
this was not so but that on the contrary the french had run away. he
this was particularly noticeable on nesvítski’s usually laughing
this was quite true, but the count, the countess, and natásha looked
this was the count’s favorite dance, which he had danced in his youth.
this was true. the architect had told him that it was necessary, and
“this won’t do, princess; it won’t do,” said he, when princess
this young jacobin was not so terrible as his words suggested. all were
those brilliant aged eyes grown old in this conviction, or the calm
those first steps. both had changed greatly since they last met and both
those hofs-kriegs-wurst-raths are! suvórov couldn’t manage them so
those kurágins and leading that sort of life. it suits you so
those of higher ranks in the order. 3. morality. 4. love of mankind. 5.
those on foot, collapsed in a great mass, and some forty men who were on
those recently arrived from russia, both guards and regiments of the
those richer and more powerful than himself and he had rare skill in
“those were extremes, no doubt, but they are not what is most
those who had been campaigning under kutúzov. the two emperors,
those who were guiding him.
those who were holding him under the armpits, and of his gray, curly,
those who were in the dimly lit reception room spoke in nervous
those women—mostly mothers—who, having once made up their minds,
thou art wise because thou couldst utter those blasphemous words,” he
though all were in a conspiracy of silence. the men who set the tone
though embracing her.
though five minutes before, prince andrew had been able to say a few
though he may perhaps outlive us all, as i sincerely hope he will...”
though he smiled delightedly. he ran up to them.
though he wrote in french and used french jests and french idioms,
though mademoiselle bourienne had been so unsuccessful in her choice
though none of the column commanders rode up to the ranks or talked to
though not much time had passed since prince andrew had left russia, he
though no words had passed between anatole and mademoiselle bourienne,
though of this prince andrew said nothing to his sister, was that in the
though politeness prevented his showing impatience, left the old woman
though she were grown up, was evidently very proud of this but at the
though shy, went on carefully executing her steps. denísov did not
thought and heard of her might be false. and he again saw her not as the
thought. and suddenly, at this thought of death, a whole series of most
thought, as he listened to voices in kutúzov’s courtyard. the voices
though the big hospitals and the houses in krems converted into military
thought, he called tíkhon and began to undress.
thought he heard a strange noise through the door. he was seized with
thought he, “i shall be sent with a brigade or division, and there,
thought: “i am going to save the army.”
thought, “i must remain free.”
thought independent of her sister-in-law’s words. in the midst of a
thought of everything, considered everything, and did everything the
thought of his friend and how much he expected of him in the future.
thought of sónya, during this stay in moscow, he said to himself,
thought of such a thing, it is only the cabinet that says it.”
thought pierre, “and how little attention we pay to it!”
thought pierre. “but this man knows the truth and, if he wished to,
thought prince andrew, and striking his horse he rode up to kutúzov.
thought—referring to the little princess who was not in the dining
thought rostóv. at that moment alexander turned his head and rostóv
thought rostóv. he knew what a shock he would inflict on his father and
thought rostóv. “i should die of happiness!”
thoughts.
thoughts, and memories suddenly arose within him that he could not fall
thought, “seriously, i have long been thinking of it.... leading such
thoughts he has dreamed of for nights, but looks around for help or a
thoughts rather than the trend of the conversation—“and that’s a
thought that came into his mind was that today he had to be presented
thought that he, an exemplary officer of many years’ service who
thought. the minister drew the remaining papers together, arranged them
thought turned to her sister-in-law with a tender glance at her figure.
though what happened was due to chance and was independent of the
though what she said was quite just, perhaps for that very reason no one
though without knowing its cause—was such as to remind one still more
thou hast lost.”
“thou hatest it. then change it, purify thyself; and as thou art
thousand austrians, with a hundred thousand russians, were to operate in
thousand men breathlessly gazing at him and the regimental commander did
thousand men each of whom knew his place and his duty, had every button
thousand-ruble horses, only eighteen were left after the charge.
thousands such as i in russia.’
thrashing for letting a private traveler have the courier horses.
threatened by the french) but at brünn. despite his apparently delicate
“three and a half miles, your majesty.”
three beats: “oh mio crudele affetto.”... one, two, three... one,
three days later the little princess was buried, and prince andrew went
“three,” he went quickly forward, missing the trodden path and
three months ago, draw fresh moral strength from your look, so gentle,
three parts of that army were sharply distinguished: kutúzov’s
throttle if they stood in my way. i have an adored, a priceless mother,
through, and realized that he could not stop halfway. he was aghast
through him, and again laughed his frigid laugh.
through his lorgnette, suddenly turned completely round toward the
throughout the whole cavalry division as váska denísov. cadet rostóv,
through that door was heard a noise of things being moved about, and
through the closed doors came the sound of difficult passages—twenty
through the conservatories, the serfs’ quarters, and the outbuildings,
through the door.
through the door came the regular hum of a lathe. the princess timidly
through the door came the sounds of kutúzov’s voice, excited and
through the door on tiptoe. he could not walk well on tiptoe and his
through the door. prince andrew got up, went to the door, and tried to
through the naïve and intelligent count and played with him as with
through the smoke. he was pressing one hand to his left side, while
through the town of enns on both sides of the bridge.
throwing down his chisel. (the wheel continued to revolve by its own
thrown the reins of the snaffle bridle over the horse’s head. it was
thud of the enemy’s cannon balls, from the flushed and perspiring
thumb to the room where telyánin was sitting, he frowned and gave a
thumping the table.
thumping the table; “and ve must tie for our emperor, and zen all vill
thyself whether thou art content with thyself. what hast thou attained
tidiness and good management. some domestic serfs pierre met, in reply
tíkhon, at her husband, and at the footman who accompanied them.
tíkhon did not hear the slightest sound from the study after that.
tíkhon knew his master’s habit of sometimes thinking aloud, and
tíkhon knew that neither the son’s arrival nor any other unusual
tíkhon, like all good valets, instinctively knew the direction of his
tíkhon to ask mary bogdánovna what news.—“say only that ‘the
tíkhon went and told the prince.
till he began sincerely to believe in his own exceptional kindness and
till its coat shone like satin and every hair of its wetted mane lay
till may, and asked him to be more economical this time. nicholas had
till midday on the nineteenth, the activity—the eager talk, running to
till now. but where am i?”
till she was twenty, and arranged her life so that her whole time was
till ten o’clock.
till the general asked him to restore it. all his absent-mindedness and
till then, had listened with an amused smile to their conversation and
till then. their powers of reasoning, feeling, and observing immediately
till the tsar reached it, each regiment in its silence and immobility
    * till tomorrow, my dear fellow.
till you can say to yourself that you have done all you are capable of,
time!”
time.
time, anna mikháylovna sent someone to call her son, and went into the
time could not admit the idea of his hero being disgraced.
time for that sort of thing and a young man fears to bind himself and
time in the shop.
time, muttering to herself.
time. no, i’ll tell you now. you know sónya’s my dearest friend.
times before: how the late princess had given birth to princess mary
time since his return that they had talked alone and about their love.
times repeated—of a sonata by dussek.
times, the more impassioned he became in these moments of almost morbid
times unexpectedly interrupted. once he stopped it by shouting: “the
time that evening, vainly expecting someone, now smiling at someone, now
time till they came to moscow had not left them for a day.
time to get his uniform. he had on a shabby cadet jacket, decorated with
time to time he went out to ask: “hasn’t she come yet?” they
timidly from behind the backs of the generals. as he stepped past the
timidly to the corner where denísov sat. she saw that everybody was
timókhin, armed only with a sword, had rushed at the enemy with such
timókhin to the subaltern beside him.
tint in her complexion and especially in the color of her slender but
tiny limbs she had felt twenty years ago within her, that son about whom
tipsy rage when a man does not know what he is saying. he saw that his
tiptoe to the countess’ door and paused.
tired of being run after by women, his vanity was flattered by the
tiresome,” said natásha in a mortified voice that trembled slightly.
“tit! i say, tit!” said the groom.
title: war and peace
to abandon the road connecting him with the troops arriving from russia,
to above the knee. pierre hurriedly began taking off his right boot also
to accept their services. he took the glove in silence from the
to adopt a jocular tone. but before he had finished he felt that his
to a footman dressed in knee breeches, shoes, and a swallow-tail coat,
to agree to the truce but also to offer terms of capitulation, and
to all the club members and to all the club guests, and finally to
to another. “how evidently he belongs to the best society,” said she
toast, the count took out his handkerchief and, covering his face, wept
to a third; and the vicomte was served up to the company in the choicest
to attain it quickly. hence we have a secondary aim, that of preparing
to attend to the business himself and so he disliked it and only tried
to a tune in which the weary musicians blundered, and while tired
to bagratión which the old countess at anna mikháylovna’s advice had
to balance himself. one of the footmen who had stooped to pick up some
to be all right,” pierre concluded, and followed anna mikháylovna.
to bear the looks turned upon her, ran away into the dancing hall,
to be grew stronger, and he meekly followed anna mikháylovna who was
to behave here as you did in petersburg, you will end very badly; that
to be heard.
to be his old schoolroom, and looking into natásha’s wildly bright
to be opened. everywhere he saw the stewards’ accounts, according to
to be parted from her husband and be left alone in the country, in her
“to be quite frank, mary, i expect father’s character sometimes
to be reserved because in the depth of my soul i feel too near to him
to be severe, found nothing to say; the others did not venture to
to be silent. but after a while, just as a jury comes out of its room,
to be so sent meant not only a reward but an important step toward
“to be sure, your excellency,” replied the architect.
to be talking to a staff officer of such importance. “it’s a lovely
to blame all round. well, what else do you want?...”
to bore him so much as that of his pretty wife. he turned away from
to build a new chantry to the church at their own expense in honor
to change his former way of life, but his strength failed him. he walked
to cheer the men but merely carried out the orders), yet the troops
“to combat the evil which sways the world...” pierre repeated, and a
to continue his military service, and when the war recommenced
to control her joy which expressed itself by laughter.
to control herself any longer, she jumped up and rushed from the room as
to count t., prince v., and others. then he bursts into one of his wild
to credit it, bent his head, and told túshin that he could go. prince
to cross the ditch on foot. the emperor, wishing to rest and feeling
to cruel with his subordinates, and went into everything down to the
today, and that his excellency was not receiving anyone.
today for the emperor.” dolgorúkov smiled significantly.
today. he has been here on leave and is taking nicholas back with him.
today or tomorrow—at any rate, in an instant as compared with
today was a great day for him—the anniversary of his coronation.
today?” was his first thought. “and i did not know this suffering
“today when i remembered that all these delightful associations
to demonstrate the defects of the latter and the merits of his own plan,
to dinner. i suppose he won’t go?” she continued, turning to the
to distraction! one learns many things then,” she added with a certain
to do but dwink. if we could only get to fighting soon. hullo, who’s
to do it?”—“because you married her,” answered an inner voice.
to do it that it seemed to him as if it had really happened. perhaps
to do what was for him the most difficult thing in life—to say an
to do with sergéy kuzmích—a smile of bashfulness at their own
to dress in here; and that andrew had quite changed, and that kitty
to drive straight home. but the nearer he drew to the house the more he
to each couple of acres. the wounded crept together in twos and threes
to each new arrival anna pávlovna said, “you have not yet seen my
to enter into conversation with this old man, but, submitting to him
to enter the brotherhood of freemasons under my sponsorship?”
     * to err is human.
toes toward the general. the captain’s face showed the uneasiness of
to everyone. pierre was so used to that smile, and it had so little
to execute an order. the officer on duty, a handsome, elegantly dressed
to express our sincere views on that subject, and can only say to the
to fathom what he has been pleased to conceal from us, the sooner will
   to feel that in this world there’s one
to fight a battle ‘on his own hand’ as the germans say. he does so.
to fire and sword. the inhabitants are totally ruined, the hospitals
to fire the bridge, and now someone has gone and blundered; they are all
together.”
together, and made some steps on the very tips of her toes.
together? and there! bezúkhov got off scotfree, while fédya had to
together as they approached it as if passing through a funnel. at last
together. the german, pahlen, has been sent to new york in america, to
together, thundered on the right and in the center, while the capotes
to get himself killed. tell me what this wretched war is for?” she
to get more money from the traveler.
to give her friend the pleasure of dandling the little angel—as she
to give in money and work all that other people’s serfs gave—that is
to give you the love you do not feel, and your prayer would have been
to go by the back stairs, yet judging by anna mikháylovna’s air
to greet the young man.
to grunth to find prince bagratión. he heard the cannonade behind him
to have any children by me.”
to hear the details.”
to hear the voices of well-known men. the largest circles formed round
to help at any point where the conversation might happen to flag. as
to her.
to her.”
to her and kissed her warmly. anatole went up to kiss the little
to her, and now that anatole had appeared it just grouped itself around
to her but to the movements of mademoiselle bourienne’s little
to her? i am so grateful to you that i would willingly sacrifice
to hers. a woman came from the bedroom with a frightened face and became
to herself: “no, i must be mistaken, he must be feeling happy, just as
to her shortsighted eyes. turning from princess mary he went up and
to him about politics. prince andrew and the others gathered round these
to him and disputed with one another who should bring him his tea,
to him, as you so well know how to be.”
to him. availing himself of his friendly relations with pierre as a boon
to him by the officers, and, like a man desperately insisting on having
to him fell against the rails with a groan. rostóv ran up to him with
to him. he could not tell them simply that everyone went at a trot and
to him: “i hear you are refitting your petersburg house?”
to himself, but which formed the whole interest of his life,
to himself, for in him alone is truth and peace,” said she in a voice
to him senseless, he understood and was not surprised at it.
to him straight out. let people think what they will of me, it’s
to him. we search, but none are to be found. the field marshal grows
to his adjutant he ordered him to bring down the two battalions of the
to his beautiful sister, but yet more by the fact that in spite of
to his estates and quite recovered the philanthropic mood in which
to his horse’s mane and pulled up beside the hussar. he was succumbing
to his leg a narrow unsheathed sword (small, curved, and not like a real
to his people in germany; and he felt greatly offended when the butler
to his study with the wet nurse and little prince nicholas (as his
to hope from him—especially as he did not know how, and did not
to imbibe,” he said. “can i receive that pure liquid into an impure
    * to indicate he did not want more tea.
to indicate that he was about to say something witty. “buonaparte?”
to inquiries as to where the prince lived, pointed out a small newly
to irresistible, youthful, childish drowsiness. “but what was i
to it were his inertia and a wrinkle on his brow indicating prolonged
to join some swedish forces at stralsund; how two hundred and twenty
to know as plain monsieur pierre, has become count bezúkhov and the
to know?” she asked sternly.
to know what is right and what is wrong. men always did and always will
to kutúzov’s staff despite all anna mikháylovna’s endeavors and
told him, and said, “very good!” in a tone that seemed to imply that
told him that he should try to do nothing to stain the whiteness of that
told him the whole field could be seen. here he dismounted, and stopped
told him to expect.
told him what he had seen.
told the count such vile, disgraceful things about us, especially about
told them all that.
told you, but you would not believe it,” she said triumphantly. “he
told you it would not be enough. how much?”
to leave that seclusion where they three were shut off from all the
to live for myself avoiding those two evils is my whole philosophy
to look under the uniforms he would have found on every man a clean
to make out the pattern.
to make reflections or think aloud in her company, and she had always
to make scenes. this last consideration moved him.
tomb of the little princess, and in this chapel was a marble monument
to me after the review and we will do what is possible.”
to me all about it, and i will help you in everything.” pierre had
to milorádovich who was near him.
tomorrow.”
tomorrow... in the evening. you must come.... come!”
tomorrow! only let me tell you, i want to know my son-in-law better. you
tomorrow,” or, “be in to dinner or i shall not see you,” or, “i
“tomorrow our squadron is to be in reserve. may i ask to be attached
“tomorrow,” replied rostóv and left the room.
“tomorrow very likely i may be sent with some message to the
to move from right to left as if drawn by an invisible hand, and the
tomowwow,” muttered denísov.
to my bivouac; let my doctor, larrey, examine their wounds. au revoir,
        to my native land...”
to my sister today. i will introduce you to her. but of course you know
tone and manner, here in moscow to anna mikháylovna whom he had placed
tone of entreaty and reproach that a carpenter uses to a gentleman who
tone of voice. “come here, my friend...” and she ominously tucked
tones.
tone. “what has been decided? they have decided that buonaparte has
“tonight, not later,” said he in a low voice, and he moved away
tonight to my friends—come to the english hotel.
to notice him, and that his whole aim now was to test the cadet’s
too.
to offer their services. most of those present were elderly, respected
took a horse and a cossack from a cossack commander, and hungry and
took her hand and begged her forgiveness, without knowing what for.
took her sister-in-law’s arm and drew her into another room.
took him by the shoulder, led him to the window, and began to talk to
took it...” he whispered just above telyánin’s ear.
took to be the enemy. shots could be heard, but some way off.
took up her work.
to olmütz, dined there, drank a bottle of wine, and then set off alone
tools laid ready to hand and shavings scattered around—all indicated
too, might have their own interests. but all he said was so prettily
to one another, and the old servant who was holding the count’s hand
to one side he gracefully held a gold lorgnette to his eyes and looked
too seemed strange; at one moment they looked impudently sly and at the
to pass the time.”
to petersburg, look round, and choose your profession. i will agree to
topic—making fun of the military men of the day, and more particularly
topic of the day: the illness of the wealthy and celebrated beau of
to pierre he said nothing, merely giving his arm a sympathetic squeeze
to pierre. he spoke in french. “i only know two very real evils in
to please you...” said prince andrew. but immediately, noticing
to present the regiment in parade order, on the principle that it is
to pretend to the steward that he was attending to it. the steward
to prince murat,
“to prince vasíli. he was so kind. he at once agreed to everything,
to provide himself with some books for the campaign, and had spent some
to raise... happens to everybody! yes, who has not done it?”
to read and write by the deacon, like your father and me. now tell me,
to recollect something. prince andrew stepped forward from among the
to remain for a few weeks longer in the house she so loved and where
to remain so for a hundred years; but the moment comes when the lever
to rest after their hard marches.
to restrain his laughter.
to retreat along the road from krems to olmütz, to unite with the
to right and left of him soldiers continually groaned and dropped. but
to rostóv and involuntarily riveted his attention, made a gesture of
to rostóv’s face, and his sobs were audible.
to rostóv when the animal was handed over to the hussar.
to run out to her, and remained in her hiding place, watching—as
torzhók embroidery came into the room offering their services.
torzhók post station, either there were no horses or the postmaster
to say: “ah, what have you done to me, and why?” and at the sight
to say, all that could be got out of them.
to say and as if she were saying it to someone else, with whom joking
to say more in the presence of a stranger.
to say “tomorrow” and keep up a dignified tone was not difficult,
to seize hold of dólokhov’s shirt.
to set the serfs to work. say that everything out of the hothouses must
to settle here altogether next year....”
to shout: “blackguards!... throw the snow back on the road!” did not
to show her fear of anna pávlovna. she looked at her niece, as if
to show that they are not at all impatient for their food. the host and
to show the austrian general the wretched state in which the troops
to slip in over there.”
to snatch from the other a boot they were both holding on to.
to snatch it from one another. the expression on all their faces
to sob aloud.
to start her gambols again and display her kittenish nature.
to state his views plainly to the emperor? is it possible that on
to stimulate his emotions he looked around. “god, death, love, the
to stop and fire the bridge.”
to subscribe all he had, but fearing that it might look like pride
to sympathize in any way.
to take their leave.
totally altered and unexpectedly rapturous and tender expression on
total of his losses on it, then he looked round for aid from the other
to tear open the veil of convention that separates a commander in chief
to tell you. there is a war now against napoleon. if it were a war for
to the accountant, “but he feels a pain in the pit of his stomach
“to the army.”
to the austrian emperor and smiled.
to the back of the house, to the room of the eldest princess.
to the devil, i’m busy!” he shouted to lavrúshka, who went up to
to the effect that the duc d’enghien had gone secretly to paris to
to the elderly lady, even betraying some impatience, she gave him an
“to the emperor.”
to the emperor francis; he remembered the minister of war, the polite
to the emperor shocked rostóv. rostóv saw how the emperor’s rather
to the emperors with a salute. his whole appearance and manner were
to the end, without raising his eyes at the opening of the door and the
to the farther side of the bridge and stopped the infantry. beside the
to the first squadron?”
to the footman who was helping him on with his cloak, listened
to the french sword and pouch. “i have taken an officer prisoner. i
to the frontier. our dear emperor has left petersburg and it is thought
to the front of the regiment and examined it from a distance.
to the general commanding that left flank with orders to retreat
to the godmother, princess mary. prince andrew sat in another room,
to the guards’ camp to find his old playmate. rostóv had not yet had
“to the head of the french government... au chef du gouvernement
“to the health of our sovereign, the emperor!” he cried, and at the
to the hussar beside him.
to the imperial family as well as to all moscow and petersburg, and both
to their chatter. anatole kept on refilling pierre’s glass while
to their companies, the sergeants major began bustling (the greatcoats
to the last meeting between father and son, it was so touching that she
to the left down below in the mist, the musketry fire of unseen forces
to the maid, “bring the princess her gray dress, and you’ll see,
to them are the parts of the mechanism which the impulse has not yet
to then been in regular order and silent began to sway and stretch and
to the old conditions of life, nicholas found it very pleasant to be
to the palace, however, an official came running out to meet him, and
to the prince and smiling amiably at him as if to show that political
to the princess.
to the prince that if these battalions went away, the guns would remain
to the ranks along which shots crackled now here and now there, drowning
to the ranks,” said the captain softly.
to the removal of the guns.
to the review, reaching the field at olmütz by ten o’clock.
“to the right from the corridor, euer hochgeboren! there you will find
to the rules of his art, as he collected the tickets from all his
to the tsar or to kutúzov, even if they were alive and unwounded?
to the unknown place where he was going, many more of our men were going
to the vienna-znaim road. bagratión was to make this march without
to the views of the old generals kutúzov and prince schwartzenberg, it
to the visitor she added: “she is my youngest girl.”
to the window.
to think of the impression he makes on others, but is occupied with
to think of the interview with his dying father which awaited him. he
to this chit of a girl, natásha, who not so long ago was playing with
to this occurrence than to the rest of what went on, having made up his
to those who knew the indubitable truth.) he forgot what the seventh
to time she smoothed the folds of her dress, and whenever the story
“to try his luck or the certainty?” rostóv asked himself.
to turn away when the old man, opening his eyes, fixed his steady and
to turn the count’s heavy body toward the wall.
to túshin’s battery had been moved away in the middle of the action
to twitch. the twitching increased, the handsome mouth was drawn to one
touched him was sent flying.
touched pierre: he looked at hélène and she too seemed disconcerted,
touching bonaparte’s.
touching his arm, but when he saw pierre’s beaming face he gave him an
touching his horse and turning purple in the face. “vill you be so
touching thanks of deputations of serfs in their full-skirted blue
touch with it, and looked around bewildered and unable to grasp what was
touch, “you promised me!”
     * to understand all is to forgive all.
to unload the muskets, explode the ammunition, and all return home as
to us.”
to walk up and down before it.
toward anna pávlovna, and anna pávlovna, with the same sad smile with
toward evening dolgorúkov came back, went straight to the tsar, and
toward evening he ceased moaning and became quite still. he did not know
toward him and said something.
toward him whom he may give me for husband.
toward the end of 1806, when all the sad details of napoleon’s
toward the sofa she had indicated. as soon as anna mikháylovna had
toward the vanguard. before he came up with the hussars, several
toward those pratzen heights which were being more and more denuded by
to warn me of the humor my father is in. i do not allow myself to judge
to. weyrother had been twice that evening to the enemy’s picket
to weyrother sat count langeron who, with a subtle smile that never left
to what he dreaded more than anything in the world—to ridicule; but
to what he must do and how he should answer, willarski only replied that
to which pierre did not agree. on the other hand, pierre demanded that
town knows?”
“to your barrier!” and pierre, grasping what was meant, stopped by
to you since dinner? hasn’t she?”
to you. where are you traveling from?”
traces broke, and lungs were strained with shouting. the officers
traditions of unlimited power, in time when they grow more irritable,
trampled mud and gazed with that particular feeling of ill-will,
trampling through the deep snow, and muttering incoherent words:
transit gloria mundi.”
translators: louise and aylmer maude
transparently radiant with impulsive joy.
traveler, also detained for lack of horses.
traveler, having packed his things with his practiced hands, began
traveling effects of prince andrew’s were in very good order: new,
treading heavily he stepped down from the carriage just as if those two
tread of the soldiers who were keeping step with him. he carried close
treated them with absent-minded contempt.
treetops and bluish gorges. the turrets of a convent stood out beyond a
trembled nervously; this was sufficient to cause his whole body to slip
trembling with emotion, solemnly holding up in both hands before her
triangles are equal; please note that the angle abc...”
tried to conceal them.
tried to pretend not to know; no one spoke of it, but apart from the
tried with his lips whether the child was still feverish. the soft
trifle to let a wagon go past. after he had gone, two soldiers rushed to
trigger, as he had not before held a pistol in his hand—a fact that he
tripping rapidly across in her little shoes trimmed with bows, ran
triumph.
triumph.
triumphant, cheerful face.
triumphantly and gaily.
triumphantly secured the mop and still did not realize what awaited him,
   triumph, valiant russians, now!...
troops arriving from russia, he risked being forestalled on that road
troops below the hill and fell far short of the enemy, a little smoke
troops had already entered prussia and our second war with napoleon
troops, he saw, near a kitchen garden with a ditch round it, two men
troops on the high ground above the bridge involuntarily asked himself
troops were ill-clad, exhausted, and had lost a third of their number
troops were moving in the distance, and he listened to the sounds of
troops were no longer moving, but stood with the butts of their muskets
troops were running onto the bridge, was about to fire, but lannes
trot to escape from the poisoned atmosphere of these latrines.
trouble, and silently fixed his eyes on bagratión as a schoolboy who
trouble, but the mason told him that was not necessary and gave him
trouvez là le mot pour rire,” * he said, as if strengthening his
trowel, a rough stone and a squared stone, a pillar, three windows, and
trowel, he told him to toil with it to cleanse his own heart from vice,
truce and a capitulation, he detected a ruse and wrote the following
“true enough,” answered nesvítski; “two smart fellows could have
true gascon) and says: ‘i don’t recognize the world-famous austrian
true, or might at least seem to be true had it not referred to his wife.
trumpets of the first cavalry regiment played the general march. it
“trust in his mercy!” and pointing out a small sofa for him to sit
trusts to luck, one should make certain,’ and i want to try.”
trying in vain to find the answer to some question.
trying not to lose a word of the speech which was incomprehensible to
trying only to be ahead of the others; but just at the bridge, not
trying” (pierre’s modesty made him correct himself) “to live for
trying through the dowager empress márya fëdorovna to secure it for
trying to get something out of the rich man?”
trying to give an expressive intonation to his voice.
trying to prove that the russians had surrendered and had fled all
try to do all i can for your happiness.”
“try to serve well and show yourself worthy,” added he, addressing
tsar and the country? it is wartime. such a fine fellow must serve.
tsar, who still remained in the same attitude of indecision.
tucked up, without a coat, pale and with a trembling jaw, came out
tuesday.
tuft of plumes in his cocked hat worn on one side with its corners front
tumbler with tea for himself and one for the beardless old man to whom
turn away from the sight, shouting angrily at the men who, as is always
turned away and went down the side of the corridor.
turned from captain timókhin again flitted over his face. he turned
turned out splendidly all the same,” he added, winking at véra.
turned round. the officer evidently had complete control of his face,
turned their horses away. the accountant stopped, facing the cossack,
turned to anna mikháylovna, answering her query by a movement of the
turned to her.
turned to his wife.
turned to speak to his daughter, the beautiful hélène.
turned toward her brother, and through her tears the loving, warm,
turned toward the women, and while the vehicle was passing at foot pace
turned to zherkóv. the nervous irritation aroused by the appearance
turning away from the girls, who at once assumed an air of inattention.
turning for a moment to the front line, and slightly swinging his arms,
turning his partner round to her seat, he executed the final pas,
turning into the village already... they will have their buckwheat
turning the horse sharply, he again jumped the ditch, and deferentially
turning to anatole, “come here, let us talk and get acquainted.”
turning to prince vasíli and answering his imploring look. “yes, or
turn into vexation and anger at the stupid arrangements and at the
turn now, but that he will do all he can to let his turn come as late as
turn spindles at home!’?” said shinshín, puckering his brows and
“turn this way!” he shouted, jumping over the ice which creaked
túshin.
túshin did not say that there were no covering troops, though that
túshin rose and, buttoning his greatcoat and pulling it straight,
túshin’s battery but had never reached it. interrupting one
túshin’s battery had been forgotten and only at the very end of the
túshin’s guns had been intended to cannonade the valley, he was
túshin’s large, kind, intelligent eyes were fixed with sympathy and
túshin smiling shyly in his uncomfortable position, evidently wishing
túshin’s wattle shed was laid, with a bullet in his stomach, on
túshin told them to give the man some water. then a cheerful soldier
túshin turned round in dismay. it was the staff officer who had turned
túshin, who silent and smiling, shifting from one stockinged foot to
twelve men in garments like those he had already seen. some of them
twenty men were gathered round a table at which dólokhov sat between
twinkled and looked out straight.
twisted upwards, sat the ruddy milorádovich in a military pose, his
twitched its ears as the bayonets touched it, and snorted, spurting
two.
two.”
two alexanders—bekleshëv and narýshkin—which was a significant
two battalions of the sixth chasseurs in fine order. before they had
two candles. on the table was a pile of gold and paper money, and he
two cossacks.
two footmen, the princess’ and his own, stood holding a shawl and
two friends, one of whom was a dashing hussar and the other a notorious
two front teeth were missing that had been knocked out by the butt end
two hostile armies was all the more clearly felt.
two hours later prince andrew, stepping softly, went into his father’s
“two, i think.”
two months had elapsed since the news of the battle of austerlitz and
two of the enemy’s shots had already flown across the bridge, where
two seconds. whether or no the emperor understood what was going on in
“two such charming children. and really you appreciate them less than
twot fo’ward!”
two thousand rubles, and though he always disliked speaking of money
two, three... one... “oh mio crudele affetto.”... one, two, three...
two years, and he did not know how the rest, about 100,000 rubles, was
two younger ones were embroidering: both were rosy and pretty and they
“ugh! i don’t like that fellow,” he said, regardless of the
“ugh. the hussars will get it hot!” said nesvítski; “they are
unable to ask for himself, he became chary of using his influence. but
unable to overcome or conceal his groundless antipathy to the man.
unable to realize where he was.
unable to withstand it now, but he also felt that on what he said now
unaccustomed brightness, but he was looking not at his sister but over
unappreciated bliss, long past. he could not conceive that a stupid
un bâtard!”* she added, as if supposing that this translation of the
unbroken and had all day beaten back an enemy force twice as numerous
unchanging smile.
unchanging stonily severe expression; and, sitting down opposite the
unconciousness and oblivion which in the opinion of napoleon’s doctor,
unconscious little princess, he shook his head reprovingly and slammed
unconsciously and quite forgetting her condition, prepared for the
“und die ganze welt hoch!” *
under an invisible cap—to see what went on in the world. she was
under an obligation, assuming an air of much greater importance than he
under fire for the first time.
under him; “turn this way!” he shouted to those with the gun. “it
under his weight alone. the men looked at him and pressed to the
under one command, and in a like order.
understand?”
understand, agitated her. she said nothing but looked about uneasily as
understand and state the patient’s condition.
understand, and the greatness of something incomprehensible but
understand him, but he did not speak it very well—“i bet fifty
understand him it was so much the worse for them—did not go up to the
understand how a man of his immense intellect can fail to see what is
understand how one can live with such ideas. i had such moments
understanding but not wishing to appear to do so. the princess as usual
understanding half of it, read only to forget, if but for a moment, what
understanding of his employer’s happiness.
understand it’!... and i ask you!”
understand it; i don’t in the least understand why men can’t live
understand it so differently. he collected all his strength, to stir and
understand. she kissed his rough curly black head. at this instant, they
understand. that’s what i’m up to.”
understand the self-abnegation of our emperor who wants nothing for
understand... what a soul he has!”
understand what was being read. he managed to follow only the last words
understood all the difficulties of the russian army’s position, and
understood her and made up my mind what she really is. was i mistaken
understood him. the old man got up and gave the letter to his son.
understood, that he could not answer him.
understood that she was being asked to entertain this young man, and
understood that this woman might belong to him.
understood the revolution and quelled it, and so for the general good,
understood what was happening as little as he did.
understood without naming.
“under the lower pillow.”
under the shirt sleeves, those hands which he loved and hated, held him
under the table.
under which she felt that she could not think, but would only be able to
“und vivat die ganze welt!” though neither the german cleaning his
uneasily as if preparing to resent any slight that might be put upon the
unexpectedly kind and pleasant smile.
unexpectedly through his mind.
unexpectedly to go into action. rostóv without hearing borís to the
unfastened cloak, wide breeches hanging down in creases, and a crumpled
unfinished bit of nibbled sugar, and asked if anything more would be
unfortunate, a stranger, alone, helpless! and, oh god, how passionately
unfriendly now became gentle and affectionate. the angry eldest
ungainly russian princesses, would fall in love with her and carry her
uniformed austrian officer.
uniform living waves of soldiers, shoulder straps, covered shakos,
uniforms advanced toward the bridge at a run. smoke appeared again
uniforms and groups with horses, easily recognizable as artillery.
uniforms, mounted on black horses, trotting straight toward him and
uniforms, with smartly dressed bandsmen in front mounted on black, roan,
unintentionally, he poured too many drops into the glass. he threw the
universe, and of the courage with which he should endure toils and
unlicked bear! a perfectly absurd and stupid fellow, and a gambler too,
unlike the old one, he expected everything to be unusual, even more
unlucky at cards.’ your cousin is in love with you, i know.”
unmarried, and even the happier for it?” so thought prince bolkónski
unmask his deceivers!” and in order to realize vividly his love
unmelted snow, or some white houses? he even thought something moved on
unnatural smile. “i expect you have guessed that prince vasíli has
unnatural way, he stretched out his hand for alpátych to kiss, and then
unpleasant.
unpleasantly excited expression.
unpleasant things to everyone and upset them. let’s go to the
unpleasant thing to a man’s face, to say what the other, whoever
unusual than what he was seeing. a skull, a coffin, the gospel—it
unwell, sat down under an apple tree and von toll remained beside him.
unwell today? eh? afraid of the ‘minister’ as that idiot alpátych
unwounded—it was they who were crushing, weighing down, and twisting
unwounded. the soldiers were ascending the hill breathing heavily, and
up against him. he wrote “800 rubles” on a card, but while the
up a glass and a pipe that were handed him.
up and began watching the movements of our troops below, as plainly
up and turning away as if from a shameful aspersion. “it is not from
up at all!”
up!” came the company commander’s voice in jaunty tones. the
up for lost time.
up from both sides. everyone crowded to the window, the englishman in
up from the sofa, seized borís under the elbow in his quick, clumsy
up her downy little lip. “all the pretty women in society will be
up her sleeves still higher. pierre approached, looking at her in a
up, invited him to his house in petersburg, and now... she has come here
up like a fool!” he thought, looking irritably at her. “she is
upon and could not now be altered. “we start tomorrow and i’m giving
upon anyone, and it was clear that the kitten had settled down only to
upon him, passed splendidly, lifting his feet with a high and graceful
upon prince andrew, who was beside him. seeing him, kutúzov’s
up on the vast field. the whole army was extended in three lines: the
up out of the mist.
upper lip and her half-open mouth—seemed to be her own special and
up their knapsacks with a jerk of their shoulders and pulling the straps
up the steps to where the coffin stood, to give her the farewell kiss.
up the whole of her thin, sickly face and made it beautiful. her brother
up to denísov’s squadron and rode at a footpace not far from rostóv,
up to her.
up tomorrow. but you will see everything for yourself when you get to
up to the altar, placed his feet at right angles, and bade him lie down,
up to the appearance of the pauvre mère; they understood that they had
up to the commander in chief, and presented arms.
up to their gallery, addressing the first violin:
up to the window of the first house, when a familiar voice called him by
up to túshin.
upwards, in the way affected by the emperor alexander, and, having
up, was hastily writing at a tub turned bottom upwards. kozlóvski’s
urged on his already weary horse to get quickly past these crowds, but
urging of horses, and the swearing of soldiers, orderlies, and officers.
us?...” “ah! mary, you have got thinner?...” “and you have grown
us aides-de-camp and adjutants! but this is what we’ll do: i have
us. but vienna is on the other side. no, the bridge has not yet been
us but within....”
used for dancing, but in which five beds now stood, and furniture of
used to be. don’t judge lise harshly,” she began. “she is so
used to like to spend them, or to open his mind by intimate talks with
used to say that a nap “after dinner was silver—before dinner,
used to show at catchplay, now and then turning his good-natured, pale,
use of whatever interest he had to offer. he himself carefully scanned
ushering bolkónski in. “so you’re a messenger of victory, eh?
us nice news of a victory by the archduke karl or ferdinand (one
us talk business. have you been to the horse guards?”
us. to the left the horizon bounded by the adjacent wood. prince
usual.
usual in french, and as if after long self-restraint she wished to make
usually so described.
usurper, the whole nation will certainly throw itself into the arms
us. well, you want an argument,” he added, “come on then.”
us—we scuttle. he hardly crosses the river to our side before we
utter a sound. he feebly moved his leg and uttered a weak, sickly groan
uttering a gentle, piteous, and childlike moan.
uvárov, who had arrived with him, paused at the doorway to allow him,
vacancies occur much more frequently in the foot guards. then just think
vainly trying to master her agitation.
valet can go in your carriage. ah! i was nearly forgetting,” he added.
valet had set down the coffee things and left the room. pierre looked
valor carry disorder and confusion into the enemy’s ranks, but should
value this mystic power and glory that is floating here above me in this
valúev was confidentially telling that uvárov had been sent from
vanguard, rewards were promised, and the men received a double ration of
vanished from his face.
vanished. he waited for the first pause in the conversation, and then
various figures worked upon it, at the other was something resembling an
various kinds: a table, chairs, and a clavichord. one adjutant, nearest
varnish.
varying expression and the same prevalent appearance of goodhearted
vasíli.
vasíli and his son.
vasíli and the eldest princess. pierre concluded that this also was
vasíli, “but it is difficult for me to ask the emperor. i should
“vasíli denísov, your son’s friend,” he said, introducing
“vasíli dmítrich, i’m so sorry for you!... no, but you are so
“vasíli dmítrich, i thank you for the honor,” she said, with an
vasíli had only acquired by imitating other parents.
vasíli, his cheeks twitching more than ever.
vasíli. “i know something about that. don’t i? and you are still so
vasíli in the anteroom. all the affectation of interest she had assumed
vasíli, in the rare moments when he was at home, would take pierre’s
vasíli, it is very sad for both. ah, my dear friend, our divine
vasíli one day, closing his eyes and fingering pierre’s elbow,
vasíli played a very despicable part in this affair and that he
vasíli severely. “you don’t know what you are doing.”
vasíli’s house in the company of the stout princess, his wife, and
vasíli’s son anatole, whom they wish to reform by marrying him to
vasíli’s son, hippolyte, had come with mortemart, whom he introduced.
vasíli’s tone of careless self-assurance that he felt he would be
vasíli to anna mikháylovna. “go and take something, my poor anna
vasíli to anna pávlovna.
vasíli to himself, with a sorrowful sigh, one morning, feeling that
vasíli understood it as an expression of weariness.
vasíli went on, testily pushing away a little table without looking at
vasíli, who had grown thinner and paler during the last few days,
velvety softness, which so mingled with her lack of art in singing that
“ve must vight to the last tr-r-op of our plood!” said the colonel,
venetian mirror in the wall, and in her trodden-down shoes briskly
“véra,” she said to her eldest daughter who was evidently not a
véra’s remark was correct, as her remarks always were, but, like
véra with guilty, happy faces.
verses called “enchantress,” which he had composed, and to which he
verses in the bosom of her dress close to her bony little chest, ran
“very.”
very briefly and vaguely, that after brilliant engagements the russians
very clever but eccentric, and a bore. the poor girl is very unhappy.
very decent town. you and i will travel comfortably in my calèche.”
very fields where the french had now to be fought; the adjacent
very fine!”
very fine when he said that,” he remarked, repeating the words in
very glad to see him hanged, but i was sorry for my father—that again
“very good,” answered nesvítski.
“very good!” said bagratión.
“very good!” said the prince closing the door behind him, and
“very good, very good,” said bagratión. “thank you, officer.”
very important.”
very important personage, had been sent on a very important mission to
“very interesting.”
very likely be getting a letter from him that day. each time that these
“very likely it would be splendid, but it will never come about....”
“very lovely,” said prince andrew.
very much! i have promised myself not to serve again in the active
“very much,” said nicholas flushing, and with a stupid careless
very muscular men, and on the night of the battle, having arrived
very poor, but for my own part at any rate, for the very reason that
very pretty and sweet, and evidently deeply in love with him, but he was
“very,” said pierre.
very serious talk.”
“very silly,” said véra. “i am ashamed of you. secrets indeed!”
very strictly to social distinctions and rarely admitted even important
very trying,” said prince andrew, apparently speaking lightly of their
very well...”
“very well,” said smolyanínov, and went on at once: “have you any
“very well, then, be so good as to wait,” said prince andrew to the
“very well, very well...”
very wise, because you can take everything along with you—vodka and
vessel and judge of its purity? only by the inner purification of myself
vicious and unfortunate people whom he would assist by word and deed,
vicomte and from the vicomte to their hostess. in the first moment of
vicomte continued, with the air of a man who, in a matter with which
vicomte who was continuing his story.
victory, and general bennigsen, hoping to receive from petersburg the
victory be in doubt, even for a moment, you will see your emperor
victory. his majesty will no doubt wish to see you, but not today. i
victory or defeat, the glory of our russian arms is secure. except your
victory over buonaparte at eylau. in petersburg everyone is rejoicing,
victory, what effect would that have on the general course of events?
victory which was conveyed, not only by the tales of those who had taken
vienna as i told you. very well. next day, which was yesterday, those
vienna by the austrian hofkriegsrath, the sole and almost unattainable
“vienna considers the bases of the proposed treaty so unattainable
vienna. kutúzov with his transport had still to march for some days
views by this french sentence. “c’est bien pour un garçon de rien
view they were right, as were those too who canonized him and died a
vile, infamous paper, but i thought the thing was invalid.”
“vile woman!” shouted the princess, darting unexpectedly at anna
village and had already been sent for.
village!” he said angrily to a general who had ridden up. “don’t
village of pratzen. but neither they nor a single commanding officer
villages were in a state of the greatest poverty. he did not know that
village. tell it to stop and await my orders.”
village. “very good!” said bagratión in reply to the officer’s
virtue was and could not recall it.
virtuous future that seemed to him so easy. it seemed to him that he had
virtuous life of which he had been dreaming since he met joseph
vish to destroy my men for your pleasure!”
visible as if but a stone’s throw away, and the movements of the
visible in the snow and a shovel had been left sticking in one of the
visible through the smoke, make out moving masses of infantry and narrow
visit his neglected estates at the same time and pick up his son anatole
visiting all the places he meant to go to and where he had been invited,
visit mademoiselle george; that at her house he came upon bonaparte,
visitor alluded to, though she had already heard about the cause of
visitor. “and to think it is cyril vladímirovich bezúkhov’s son
visitor. “he is a son of márya ivánovna dólokhova, such a worthy
visitors on his right. midway down the long table on one side sat the
visitors. there was the fact that only those came who wished to dance
vividly imagined what awaited it and the part he would have to
vladímir medal and ribbon? but now, even if they do get peppered, the
vladímirovich bezúkhov, countess rostóva sat for a long time all
vladímirovich bezúkhov. if he will not assist his godson—you know
vladímirovich bezúkhov’s house. “my dear borís,” said the
vladímirovich is my mother’s second cousin. he’s also my bóry’s
vocation is to be happy with another kind of happiness, the happiness
vodka a quarter of an hour before, he saw everywhere the same rapid
vodka—get on!” rostóv shouted, when the sleigh was only three
vodka. the campfires crackled and the soldiers’ songs resounded
voice.
voice.
voice, and lieutenant telyánin, a small officer of the same squadron,
voice, “but believe me, i so adore your daughter and all your family
voice calling him by name.
voice from heaven. how gladly would he have died at once for his tsar!
voice, obviously so elated by the sound of firing, by the prospect of
voice, opening his door.
voice, popped her head in at the door.
voices.
voices, and the army swayed and started in one enormous mass six miles
voices subsided, the footmen cleared away the broken glass and everybody
voice suddenly shrieked: “but if i hear that you have not behaved like
voices were but feebly heard amid the uproar and one saw by their faces
voice. “there was no one else in the room except myself. so that if it
voice. to fresh questions as to the firmness of his resolution pierre
voice trembled.) “i loved your father... and she will make you a good
voice which expressed joy for himself, severity for the regiment, and
voice, with its incorrect breathing and labored transitions, was
voice, “you were pleased to send me to captain túshin’s battery. i
“voilà l’agrément des camps, monsieur le prince,” * said the
volume you have sent me and which has such success in moscow. yet since
von bergs—have been knights!”
votre victoire n’est pas des plus victorieuses.” *
voulu, george dandin,’ that’s all we have to say about it!”
vous aime’?” he kept repeating to himself. and when he had said it
“vous voyez le malheureux mack,” he uttered in a broken voice.
vreatening russia and zat ze safety and dignity of ze empire as vell
vulgarity of the expressions that were natural to her, though she had
vyazmítinov, the new military governor general of petersburg, had
     wafting sweet music o’er the lea,
waistcoat. “it’s the sauté, most likely,” she added with a smile.
“wait a bit and listen. it’s fine!” answered sídorov, who was
“wait a bit, he is not drunk yet! a bottle here,” said anatole, and
“wait a bit, here’s a letter for you,” said the old man suddenly,
“wait a bit, i have something in view for you this evening.”
“wait a moment, i’ll get my work.... now then, what are you
“wait!” cried dólokhov, hammering with the bottle on the window
waited for him to go on, but as he seemed quite decided to say no more
waited impatiently for prince andrew’s return from the commander in
waited in expectation of an important order for an expensive funeral.
waiter filled his glass he changed his mind and altered it to his usual
“wait, haven’t you dropped it?” said rostóv, picking up the
“wait, i have not finished...” he said to prince andrew, seizing
waiting for a seven to turn up, gazed at dólokhov’s hands which held
waiting for him to say a word and cross a certain line, and he knew that
waiting for—some important relation who has not yet arrived, or a dish
waiting for the beat. only on horse back and in the mazurka was
waiting to hear whether he would say anything more. but kutúzov, with
waiting to see what he would do. he stood a little while before the
“waiting, your majesty,” repeated kutúzov. (prince andrew noted
“wait—just a word! when he has been transferred to the guards...”
wait only two hours, when, come what might, he would let his excellency
waken...” all rose and cried “hurrah!” bagratión also rose and
wake up, váska!” he went on, turning to denísov, whose head
walked away from the fire.
walked slowly without raising his pistol, looking intently with his
walk to meet him. his face with its long mustache was serious as always,
wall. on this knoll there was a white patch that rostóv could not at
walls hung round with persian carpets. the part of the room behind the
wanted.
wanted to show him that his losses were an achievement that made her
wanted to sleep. the gay triumphant shouting of the enemy army had a
wants to go to the war,” replied pierre, addressing the princess
“wants to turn on the other side,” whispered the servant, and got up
want that. and besides, what a notion that medicine ever cured anyone!
want the money for? as if that money could add a hair’s breadth to
want to, but now i have no time.” besides, it seemed to him that the
want to dance well. her enormous figure stood erect, her powerful arms
war and peace
war came contradictory news, false as usual and therefore variously
wardrobe in which pierre noticed garments such as he had never seen
wares, especially a pair of goatskin slippers. “i have hundreds of
war, even here amid fieldwork and the calm of nature—which townsfolk
war has deprived me of one of the associations nearest my heart. i mean
warm themselves, gathering round the fires throwing into the flames the
war or politics but related to high society, to certain women, and to
warrior doing some kind of man’s work of his own, without help or
wars,” he said.
was.
was about to be decided. but prince andrew did not see how it ended. it
was about to cross the space between the barriers, when dólokhov cried:
was about to expand her dresses into a balloon and sit down. they were
was about to run on, thinking that the farther he went to the front
was about twenty-five. like all infantry officers he wore no mustache,
was about, went across the room to where pierre was standing and gave
was abroad; so pierre had not the opportunity to spend his nights as he
was accustomed to understand him. he led him to the desk, raised the
was again nodding. “come, get on! you shall have three rubles for
was a great success. there were many pretty girls and the rostóv girls
was all over; but he said in an indifferent tone:
was already perfectly cured of his former faults and was ready for all
was also a yellow, wrinkled old man, without beard or mustache,
was always busy and always felt in a state of mild and cheerful
“was a political necessity, and it seems to me that napoleon
was a stroke of genius. prince auersperg feels his dignity at stake and
was at home last, and, having assured himself that they had not, he
was a unique chance to show his devotion to the emperor and he had not
was a young horse telyánin had sold to rostóv.)
was baptized. the wet nurse supported the coverlet with her chin, while
was beginning, anna pávlovna gave one of her soirees. the “cream of
was being done was not his adjutant’s fault, and still not answering
was being held by the arms and his horse was being led behind him.
was borís drubetskóy, who had just arrived as a special messenger from
was bright, he had a good horse under him, and his heart was full of
was charmant. even if anna pávlovna did not say so, he could see that
was charming... you are very kind... countess apráksina...” was heard
was coming, and turning to her mother:
was delighted with denísov’s skill, he was asked again and again as
was diverted by the desperate shrieks of the woman in the vehicle. an
was downstairs.
was dulled by imbecility and a constant expression of sullen
was ecstatically conscious of his approach. he felt it not only from the
was evidently one, rostóv felt confused, blushed, and became silent.
was excellent. with the second course, a gigantic sterlet (at sight of
was for earthly love. the more she tried to hide this feeling from
was forgetting. we must have another entrée. ah, goodness gracious!”
was, for something could be descried. on the right the guards were
was fought.
was fully described: prince murat et tout le tremblement... you see that
was going home to vorónezh and rostóv persuaded him to travel with him
was great on the bridge of arcola, and in the hospital at jaffa where he
was growing dusk. on the narrow augesd dam where for so many years the
was happy. “left... left... left...” he seemed to repeat to himself
was heartily sick of them. in spite of this, or rather because of
was holding fast to plait, would allow.
was immediately killed. prince andrew again seized the standard and,
was immediately surrounded by courtiers on all sides. everywhere he
was impossible for cavalry to act among the bushes and broken ground,
was impossible to see it clearly with the naked eye. our right flank was
was in a white uniform rode a black one. these were the two emperors
was in his place, waiting.
was in raptures about him, when he had just returned from abroad, and
was in the right so i kept silent; was not that best, count?... ‘hey,
was in the way and was the only one who did not notice the fact. most of
was keeping the bank. rostóv had not seen him since his proposal and
“was kutúzov well? when had he left krems?” and so on. the emperor
was large and of an old pattern. the french swarming round their guns
was laughing at something, mingled in a merry sound, like the chirping
was lost. no one whom rostóv asked could tell him where the emperor
was lying asleep on the ottoman with an open book in his hand.
was mentioned and, pointing to his forehead, remarked:
was merely a man of the world who had got on and to whom getting on had
was more important than verses, and bagratión, again preceding all the
was napoleon—his hero—but at that moment napoleon seemed to him
was necessary for him to go to the count at all, still less why he had
was “not a whit worse than you or i.” at dinner the prince usually
was not behaving very well in this matter. “youth, frivolity... well,
was nothing. so why should i not stay at his house? then i played cards
was not in love with anyone in particular, but with everyone. whatever
was. now he excused himself for having been taken prisoner and now,
wasn’t it?”
“wasn’t i telling you to fire the bridge, when inflammable material
“wasn’t it fine when those germans gave us lifts! you just sit still
was often on dólokhov’s face when looking at him. “yes, he is a
was on duty and that he should go through the door on the left into the
was only redder than usual. with his shaggy head thrown back like birds
was out of the question, “i am in love with your brother once for all
was pale, his blue eyes looked impudently into the commander’s face,
was particularly pleasant at that moment. they had reached the battery
was perfectly true. he was afraid of getting some other officer into
was rapidly and excitedly talking to a french grenadier. “hark to him
was rather out of place in this brilliant society, the whole company had
was repeatedly summoned to see him. at headquarters and among the troops
was said.
was saying.
was serving, and a misunderstanding arose. the two commanders were much
was silenced at once. they looked at the beautiful, large, thoughtful
was silent with his steward, the gardener, and the architect, and though
was sitting at a small table, chattering with másha, her maid. she grew
was sitting at the head of the table. on either side of her sat the
was sitting beside him, by the hand. rostóv was struck by the
was sitting. the curtains were drawn, and a single candle was burning on
was so close to him that his shortsighted eyes could not but perceive
was something black, now little lights seemed to glimmer where the enemy
was spitting blood. a bullet had evidently hit him in the throat or
was standing beside the princess, and they were both speaking in excited
was stricter.”
was struck by the change in him. his words were kindly and there was a
was taken up with dinners and balls and was spent chiefly at prince
was talked of. for the rostóv family the whole interest of these
was talking came up to listen. berg, oblivious of irony or indifference,
was tall and fair, and his calm and handsome face had regular, delicate
“was that grapeshot?” he asked denísov.
was the count at last handed a letter addressed in his son’s
was the emperors’ suites. the emperors rode up to the flank, and the
was the little princess, these tears, the cause of which she did not
was the name his fancy gave to the farthest gun of the battery, which
was there on the hilltop, and kept constantly looking at the patches
was thinking of. yes, na-tásha, sabretache, oh, yes, yes! that’s
was told that the prince had gone to the nursery.
was too far separated from our right flank and the cavalry were all
was true and appropriate, yet, strange to say, everyone—the visitors
was true. no one had taken any notice, for everyone knew the sensation
was trying to fit music:
was very valuable. officers who approached him with disturbed
was warm blood under his arm. “no, i am wounded and the horse is
was writing. “i’ll do it.”
watched her cousin who was going to join the army, with such passionate
watched him. she smiled, hid her face in her handkerchief, and remained
watched him smilingly, and he rode off by the winding path down the
watchful eye on the young man who so alarmed her, noticed that he was
watching and it creaked very slightly as she disappeared behind it.
“watching over his interests” meant, but he decided that all these
watch the change in the tone and manners of the mammas burdened by
watchword—shaft, olmütz. what a nuisance that our squadron will be in
water.
water cart, painted green, stood in a shed; the paths were straight,
waters of the distant danube shone. and fairer still were the faraway
waving it above his head cried:
way and attaching him to himself! what if he gave me a place near him?
way, and, blushing far more than borís, began to speak with a feeling
way, dear boy! make way, make way!” pushed through the crowd more
way,” he added in russian—but pronouncing the word with a french
way in which he danced the mazurka, nicholas ran up to natásha:
way!... let us pass!... stop there, you devil with the cart! i’ll hack
way of these men, and he would have got clear had they continued at the
way,” said an officer.
way through the crowd, went out of the drawing room and reappeared a
way, with berg who was already in command of a company. berg, who had
weak human understanding cannot grasp, it seems to me rather useless to
weakness—the one to which he had confessed when admitted to the
“we all have our weaknesses,” said kutúzov smiling and walking away
“weally! and i’ve been losing, bwother. i lost yesterday like a
weapon) and looked now at the superior officers and now back at the men
“we are enjoying ourselves! vasíli dmítrich is staying a day longer
“we are not fighting pour le roi de prusse, but for right principles.
“we are such friends, such friends! all that ruler business was just
“we are to spend the night in znaim.”
weariness and assurance, as if he were adding every time: “you know
weariness of tone, “it is almost impossible for me to do what you
wearing long dresses for the first time. with scarcely any exceptions
wearing scarves and all their decorations, not only the elegant, pomaded
wearing the cross of st. george, awarded to soldiers for bravery in
weary, and distracted air, though at the same time he was haughty and
weary faces, were sitting at the table eating and drinking.
weary, making his way past the baggage wagons, rode in search of the
weary of it and it was not at all what he wanted. he turned away and
weather, and countess apráksina. now and then they glanced at one
weather. “the weather is beautiful, princess; and besides, in moscow
we begin a very original and interesting series of maneuvers. our aim is
we can know is that we know nothing. and that’s the height of human
“we can’t have less—yes, three... the mayonnaise, that’s one,”
we could not think how to address the reply! if not as ‘consul’
wednesday’s meeting of the imperial council, at which sergéy kuzmích
“we don’t interfere with you and berg.”
‘we don’t love people so much for the good they have done us, as
“we drove them back!” said borís with animation, growing talkative.
weeks, and months of his life passed in as great a rush and were as much
weep without knowing why—rode behind on his artillery nag. though
“we had better separate,” he muttered in a broken voice.
we had not religion to console us life would be very sad. why do you
we have fully concentrated forces of nearly seventy thousand men with
“we have orders to drive you off here, and we shall drive you off,”
we hear is true, it is dreadful. how little we dreamed of such a thing
“we here in moscow are more occupied with dinner parties and scandal
weight.
weight they were carrying were too much for them.
we knew you’d say so. but it won’t do, because you see, if you say
we know where we are. and what do you think of the boulogne expedition?
welcome for the approaching chief.
we let our feeble human minds roam, the better we shall please god, who
welfare of his soul is at stake. ah, it is awful: the duties of a
well.”
well.”
“well, all i can make out is that everything is abominable,
“well, all right, all right.”
“well, all the same, you must refuse him.”
“well, and are you still true to borís?” he continued.
well!” and he turned to go.
well and, in particular, drinks well. “so do come and dine with us!”
“well, and is that all?” he asked.
“well, and so he never got farther than: ‘sergéy kuzmích’?”
“well and then?” asked the other voice. “if before that you are
“well, and to whom did you apply about bóry?” asked the countess.
“well, and you? what are your plans?”
“well, and you, young man,” said he. “how do you feel, mon
“well, aren’t you ashamed of yourself, captain túshin?” he
well, are you off to the front?”
well, as all the connoisseurs who heard her said: “it is not trained,
“well, as you see. so far everything’s all right, but i confess i
“well, au revoir, bolkónski! au revoir, prince! come back early to
“well, au revoir! good-by! you hear her?”
“well begin!” said dólokhov.
well-brushed clothes. there was a masculine odor and a smell of tobacco.
“well done!... fine fellow!... there’s a bet for you!... devil take
“well done, lads!” said prince bagratión.
“well, do you think i shall prevent her, that i can’t part from
well educated and clever. this is all that his foreign education has
well enough to be sure that this will not turn your head, but it imposes
we’ll fire off some cannon! but this sort of thing seems done
well for you,” said natásha, with a responsive smile. “you should
“well, fwiend? so you’ve smelt powdah!” shouted váska denísov
“well, go and see,” he said, after a pause.
“well, good-by, prince,” said he to bagratión. “my blessing, and
“well—had a good time?” said the old count, smiling gaily and
“well? has he been degraded into a field marshal, or into a soldier?
“well, have it so, and you talked a lot of nonsense to him and must
“well, have you finished?” said he to kozlóvski.
“well, have you sent gabriel for some wine? all right let’s have
“well?” he asked.
“well!” he said, turning to his wife.
“well, he’s really a good fellow, one can serve under him,” said
“well, how are you going to get out of that?” he remarked.
“well? how do you feel?” he asked.
“well! how d’ye do? how d’ye do? glad to see you!”
“well, how d’you do, my dear fellow?” said dolgorúkov, who was
“well, how is he?”
“well, i am taking it off,” replied lavrúshka’s voice.
“well, i did not expect you, i am very glad,” said prince andrew.
“well, i don’t know about that, but i am uncomfortable with him. and
“well, i don’t know. it’s awkward and would make me ashamed.”
“well, if you do, so much the better, and you can go back to her!”
“well, i have got all i need into packs for two horses,” said
“well, is it true that it’s peace and capitulation?” asked
“well, i suppose it is time we were at table?” said márya
“well, i think it is. the bigwigs here think so too, but they
“well, it’s as you like,” said the staff captain. “and what has
“well, it seems that no one has noticed,” thought rostóv. and this
well i will give you my hand to kiss. not till then!” she said. and
“well, i will leave you in your little corner,” came anna
“well, i will read them, then!” bagratión seemed to say, and,
well known, so much appreciated by everyone. the other day at the
“well, lëlya?” he asked, turning instantly to his daughter and
“well, let’s go and sing ‘the brook.’”
well-lit anteroom where they took off their cloaks without the aid of
“well, little countess? what a sauté of game au madère we are to
“well, madam,” he began, stooping over the book close to his
“we’ll make you dance as we did under suvórov...,” * said
“we’ll manage very well without a doctor.”
“well, maybe!” said prince andrew. “go, másha; i’ll come
“well, michael ivánovich, our bonaparte will be having a bad time
“well, michael mítrich, sir?” he said, addressing one of the
“well, mon cher,” said the vicomte, having seated himself beside
“well, my boy, you’ll get along wherever you go—foot or
“well, my dear?” asked the countess.
“well, my dear boy, i hear you’ve been educated abroad, not taught
“well, my dear fellow, so you still want to be an adjutant? i have
“well, my dear fellow, tomorrow we are off at last,” said prince
“well, my dear?” said prince vasíli, taking her hand and bending it
well, never mind, here you are.”
“well, never mind; i only...”
“well now, gentlemen,” said bilíbin, “bolkónski is my guest in
“well, now, good-by!” he gave his son his hand to kiss, and embraced
“well now, isn’t she a fool!” shouted the prince, pushing the book
“well, now tell me about your exploits,” said he.
“well, now to the health of handsome women!” said dólokhov, and
“well, now we’ll arrange something quite simple and becoming,” she
“well, now you’ve done what you wanted,” put in nicholas—“said
“well, of course, of course!”
well, only a little bruised just here,” he added, pointing with a
“well, prince?” asked kozlóvski.
“well, prince, so genoa and lucca are now just family estates of the
“well, really, catiche! can’t you understand! you are so
“well, really, mamma! why should you? what is there to be surprised
well remembered that seven afterwards. he laid down the seven of hearts,
“well?” returned the old man.
“well,” said she, “how’s my cossack?” (márya dmítrievna
“well!...” said the old count, spreading out his arms and sinking
“well, send for him... and how do you get on with that german?”
we’ll set off.”
“well, she loves me and you like that.”
“well, so that’s finished, my dear fellow! i am very glad to have
“well, stand us some of your herb vodka, túshin,” it said.
“well, talk as much as you can, anyway. he has a passion for giving
“well, thank god! we’ve been sitting here too long!”
“well, that is hardly a sufficient reason, mamma...”
“well, that’s all right,” continued the regimental commander. “a
“well, that’s only till the first engagement.”
“well, the lord be thanked, princess,” said mary bogdánovna, not
“well then, accept his offer. it’s high time for you to be
“well then, be quick. we’ll all have breakfast together.”
“well, then go off to your buonaparte! mademoiselle bourienne,
“well, then, i won’t; only forgive me, sónya!” he drew her to him
“well, then, let’s be quick. borís, come here,” said natásha.
“well then, mind and have cocks’ comb in the turtle soup, you
“well, then, old chap, mon très honorable alphonse kárlovich,”
“well then,” prince andrew answered himself, “i don’t know
“well then, tell him so.”
“well then, that’s excellent,” said he. “we’ll talk it over
“well then, till tomorrow at sokólniki,” said dólokhov, as he took
“well then, what do you want? you’re all in love nowadays. well,
“well there certainly are disgusting people,” thought rostóv as he
“well, there you see!”
“well, they’ve sent you a tidy sum,” said berg, eying the heavy
“well, this is strange! do you suppose i... who could think?... i know
“well, till we meet again...” he said, holding out his hand to
“we’ll try to,” replied berg, touching a pawn and then removing
“well, what about it?” said he to denísov. “it won’t come to a
“well, what is it?” came a sharp, unpleasant voice.
“well, what’s this now? what have you been up to now, i should like
“well, what then?”
“well, why are you going to the war?” asked pierre.
“well, why don’t you speak? whom have you got there dressed up as a
“well, won’t you go on? i had a splendid card all ready,” as if it
“well, you’d better not play,” dólokhov added, and springing a
“well, young cavalryman, how is my rook behaving?” he asked. (rook
“well, young man?” he said with a sigh, and from under his lifted
“well, your excellency, what? your excellency! but what about your
“well, you see, count, i want some money.”
“well, you see, i’ll tell you the whole secret of dueling in two
“well, you see, my dear princess and cousin, catherine semënovna,”
“well, you’ve told me nothing new,” and the old man repeated,
“we may as well go back,” said the son in french.
“we must distinguish between the vienna cabinet and the emperor of
    * “we must let him off the u!”
“we must let him see amelie, she’s exquisite!” said one of
we? no?”
went about the rooms fashionably dressed but looking sad and dull. here,
went by. then suddenly a terrible shriek—it could not be hers, she
went further in among the plants and threw down the doll. “closer,
went into the reception room familiar to pierre, with two italian
went in with nicholas. after them other couples followed, filling the
went on to the game without omitting a single dish or one of the wines.
went on, with a somber and scornful smile. “and thou art more foolish
went out after shaking hands with dolgorúkov and bilíbin.
went out of the hut in which he was billeted with nesvítski and began
went there and found two thirds of the men and horses knocked out, two
went to her father’s room at the usual hour, mademoiselle bourienne
went to the carriage.
went, with the smile of a coquettish girl, which at one time probably
we parted. why are we not together as we were last summer, in your big
wept. she saw her brother now as he had been at the moment when he took
wept too. they wept because they were friends, and because they were
were all a pretense, and that the whole attention of that company was
were all hugging him, and the serfs, men and maids, flocked into the
were already up and astir. the smoke of the campfires, into which they
were also distinguished by the fact that she always presented some new
were among the prettiest. they were both particularly happy and gay.
were being set out for eighty people; and looking at the footmen, who
were bringing in jugs and basins, hot water for shaving, and their
were bringing in silver and china, moving tables, and unfolding damask
were casual guests—chiefly young men, among whom were denísov,
were children. you might think that i... i understand, quite understand.
were concentrated. twice they had attempted to attack this point, but on
were constantly shaping themselves in his mind, arising from the
were crossing themselves. rostóv no longer looked at the colonel, he
were descending. in front in the fog a shot was heard and then another,
were evidently flurried and intimidated by the directions and shouts of
were expecting márya dmítrievna akhrosímova, known in society as le
were flocking in to look at him. prince bagratión was thanking the
we’re getting it still worse,” said nesvítski. “but sit down and
“we’re going into action, gentlemen!”
were, “high-sounding words which have long been discredited. who does
were in a hurry to show the changes that had taken place in them.
were in them. she leaned over to her brother and kissed him, slightly
were leaving to join their regiment after epiphany. about twenty people
were lips seeking a kiss.
were moving in and out among the russian troops and served as heralds
were moving in the same direction. every soldier felt glad to know that
were near him. everybody said that buonaparte himself was at braunau.”
were nicholas and sónya, the niece. sónya was a slender little
were not in very good condition), and instantly the squares that had up
were not to be overburdened with labor, women while nursing their babies
were not to be sent to work, assistance was to be given to the serfs,
were of the same age and both handsome fellows, though not alike. borís
were only 217 sick and stragglers. everything was in good order except
were passing by. from one of the drivers he learned that kutúzov’s
were present, including dólokhov and denísov.
were pronounced, pierre, who had so long been considering his career,
were ready to drop, and so said the grown-up young men and women who
were really given, but that prince bagratión tried to make it appear
were saying. suddenly, however, he was struck by a voice coming from the
were sent to the crossroads to guide him over the country road with its
were sitting at embroidery frames while a third read aloud. it was the
were sitting at the table on which a plan was spread out.
were sitting on some feather beds. evidently these fugitives were
were talking and listening too eagerly and too naturally, which was why
were the center of groups which even strangers approached respectfully
were the fun of the game which interested him most.
were the potëmkins, suvórovs, and orlóvs germans? no, lad, either you
were therefore awkward.
were there, only disorganized crowds of troops of various kinds. he
were there,” thought rostóv. “in myself alone and in that sunshine
were those of the orderlies who were packing up; one voice, probably a
were throwing everything superfluous, made the eyes smart. it was cold
were to be severe with her and to forbid it ... goodness knows what they
“we’re to go into action, gentlemen! mack has surrendered with his
were to land at naples, and how a total force of five hundred thousand
were turned against the ten-gun battery. túshin’s companion officer
were using their ramrods, others putting powder on the touchpans or
were waiting for them to come out.
were walking, driving past, and settling down all around. the sound
“we shall be late.”
“we shall probably advance,” replied bolkónski, evidently reluctant
“we shall see.”
“wetched business,” he muttered to himself. “how much is left in
“wetched!” he muttered, throwing down a purse with some gold in it.
“we’ve given it ‘em hot, mate! they won’t make another push
“we’ve got to it at last—why did you not tell me about it
“we’ve said good-by. go!” he suddenly shouted in a loud, angry
“we were ordered to be at the place before nine, but we haven’t got
“we will talk of it later” (and he looked round at rostóv). “come
“we will talk of it later,” said anna pávlovna with a smile.
we women, prince,” and she smiled tenderly, “always know how to say
weyrother.
weyrother again gave that smile which seemed to say that to him it was
weyrother, hurriedly rising from his seat and going up to the table on
weyrother’s had already been approved. as soon as prince andrew began
weyrother’s name, or even the term “dispositions.”
weyrother, who was in full control of the proposed battle, by his
“what about capitulation?”
“what about your master?” he asked lavrúshka, denísov’s orderly,
“what a charming creature your younger girl is,” said the visitor;
“what a clever man your father is,” said she; “perhaps that is why
“what a dandy you are today!” said nesvítski, looking at
“what a delightful woman this little princess is!” said prince
“what a fine fellow you are, friend!” said the cossack to a convoy
what a heart!”
“what? a minister? what minister? who gave orders?” he said in
what am i to do if i love nothing but fame and men’s esteem? death,
“what an extraordinary genius!” prince andrew suddenly exclaimed,
“what a nice figure the policeman must have cut, my dear!” shouted
“what?” answered the old man absent-mindedly.
“what a pity you weren’t at the arkhárovs’ on thursday. it was so
“what are they about?” thought prince andrew as he gazed at them.
“what are you about?” shouted rostóv, looking at him in an ecstasy
“what are you doing!” she cried vehemently. “he is dying and you
“what! are you going to remain as you are, dear princess?” she
“what are you making such a noise about over there?” márya
“what are your commands, little countess?”
“what, are you wounded, my lad?” said túshin, approaching the gun
“what?” asked the commander.
what? a slur on my name? a misfortune for life? oh, that’s
what a soul there is in dólokhov, you should see him with his mother.
“what a strange fate, másha darling!” and having taken off his
what a strange frenzy one experiences during an attack,” prince
“what a style! how charmingly he describes!” said she, reading the
“what a treasure that dmítri is,” added the count with a smile when
what a voice she has; though she’s my daughter, i tell the truth
“what brings you here?” cried the officers turning to the newcomer.
what can be done with two hundred and thirty rubles! i even manage to
“what can he say? tra-di-ri-di-ra and so on... merely to gain time.
“what can it be?” he thought. “the enemy in the rear of our army?
“what can one say about it?” replied the prince in a cold, listless
what chance has michael kutúzov? no, my dear boy,” he continued,
“what delicacy!” thought the princess. “is it possible that
“what devil brought them here?” thought he, while tíkhon was
“what devils these quartermasters are! see, the fifth company is
“what did he say? where to, now? halt, is it? did he thank us?” came
what difficulty the father had dragged his legs upstairs while the son
“what division are you?” shouted an adjutant, riding up.
“what does harm to another is wrong,” said pierre, feeling with
“what does it mean? what is it? whom are they firing at? who is
“what does that prove?” he was saying as rostóv rode up. “they
“what does this mean?” she brought out.
what do we, i mean the austrian court, care for your victories? bring
“what do you thank me for?”
“what do you want, your honor?” asked an artilleryman, standing
“what error or evil can there be in my wishing to do good, and even
whatever.
“whatever are you bothering about, gentlemen?” said bilíbin, who,
“whatever happens to you,” he said, “you must bear it all manfully
“whatever is this? this!” he shouted and stood still. “commander
“whatever the european sovereigns and commanders may do to
whatever the import of his work. it was not the question “what for?”
whatever we may say about the soul going to the sky... we know there is
“what for? i don’t know. i must. besides that i am going....” he
“what good are they? they’re led about just for show!” remarked
what happiness it would be to die—not in saving the emperor’s life
“what has happened?” he asked himself. “i have killed her lover,
“what have the young people come to nowadays, eh, feoktíst?” said
“what have they taken a baby in there for?” thought prince andrew in
“what have you done to mlle schérer? she will be quite ill now,”
“what?” he answered, not recognizing borís.
“what? here? but why did they not blow up the bridge, if it was
what he should do on his estates.
what he was about; yet they beat him à plate couture,*(3) and where
what he was laughing at. everything her father did inspired her with
what he was saying was out of place, tactless and unsuitable, that
what he was to do. the coming of these visitors annoyed him. “what are
what i have seen during these last three months is incredible.
“what is bad, father?”
what is beyond death, none of us would be afraid of it. that’s so,
what is going on around them.
“what is it?”
“what is it?” asked the countess, startled; but seeing by her
“what is it, dear?”
“what is it?” he asked.
“what is it?” he said crossly, and, his hand shaking
what is it i am attached to, papa?” said anatole, turning to his
what is it meant to prove? what? i ask you.”
“what is it? what?” asked both princesses when they saw for a moment
“what is it you are afraid of, lise? i don’t understand,” said he.
what is life, and what is death? what power governs all?”
“what is that?” asked the countess as if she did not know what the
“what is the commander in chief doing here?” he asked.
“what is the matter, mary?”
“what is the matter?” she asked.
“what is the matter with you, my darling? you look pale. oh, you
“what is the matter with you, my dear?” she said crossly to the maid
what is there? who is there?—there beyond that field, that tree, that
“what is the something?” asked he.
   what is this bliss that makes my fingers thrill?
“what is this?” thought nicholas, listening to her with widely
“what is your conception of freemasonry?”
“what! it is as if i were glad of a chance to take advantage of
what it must be for her, poor thing, after what she has been used to,
what looked like a squadron of horsemen in various uniforms. two of them
   what magic power is this recalls me still?
“what manners! i thought they would never go,” said the countess,
“what, monsieur pierre... do you consider that assassination shows
“what news, sir?” asked the officer, evidently anxious to start a
“what next? have you gone mad?... no one would let you!... why, you go
“what next?” the princess interrupted, smiling sardonically and not
“what nonsense...”
“what nonsense! much i need it!” said rostóv, throwing the letter
“what? occupied? vienna occupied?”
what pierre did not know was that the place where they presented him
“what? revolution and regicide a grand thing?... well, after that...
“what? saw the real mack? with hands and feet?”
“what shall we sing?” she said.
    * “what’s he singing about?”
what she was holding in her reticule.) “so you promise?”
“what’s it all about? why, the french have crossed the bridge that
what’s one to do?” and, having given his order, he returned to
what’s one to do, my dear?”
   what spark has set my inmost soul on fire,
“what’s that that has fallen?” asked the accountant with a naïve
“what’s that? what do you make of it?” said rostóv to the hussar
“what’s the good of denying it, my dear? our dear countess was too
“what’s the matter?” exclaimed prince andrew standing still in
“what’s the matter? i only congratulated them,” said zherkóv.
“what’s the matter with you? are you ill?”
what’s the matter with you? you must be ill to shiver like that,” he
“what’s this? am i falling? my legs are giving way,” thought he,
“what’s to be done? she’s pretty! i will do everything. make your
“what stupid orders! they don’t themselves know what they are
“what’s your name?”
what there is in you.”
what to do with his hands; he was more accustomed to walk over a plowed
“what! to whom?... nonsense!” cried the count, suddenly reddening
what was approaching in the distance from the opposite side—the blue
what was going on in the passage. some women passing with quiet steps in
“what was it?”
what was passing in his mind.
what we fathers have to put up with.... is this princess of yours
“what? what? how dare you? what?” said telyánin.
what will happen and don’t want to know, and can’t, but if i want
“what will happen now?” thought she.
“what would it cost you to say a word to the emperor, and then he
“what would you have me do?” he said at last. “you know i did all
“what would you have, my dear fellow?” answered pierre, shrugging
“what! you don’t remember borís?” asked sónya in surprise.
“what you have with you: watch, money, rings....”
“what you said just now was splendid!” said his partner julie.
wheels and pulleys is merely a slow and regular movement of the
wheels and the sensation of victory. then he began to imagine that
wheels and working the screws himself.
wheel, which merged in her memory with what followed.)
when all was ready, the sabers stuck in the snow to mark the barriers,
“when am i to receive the money, count?”
when anna mikháylovna returned from count bezúkhov’s the money, all
“when are you starting?” he asked.
when borís and anna pávlovna returned to the others prince hippolyte
when borís appeared at his door pierre was pacing up and down his room,
when borís, who was to be served up to the guests, entered the drawing
whence—a stern note of which all are conscious sounds in the moral
“when did you get the letter? was it from olmütz?” repeated
when everybody rose to go, hélène who had spoken very little all
when footsteps or voices were heard did they look at one another, the
when germans start being accurate, there’s no end to it!”
when he came level with the foot guards he noticed that about them and
when he entered, prince andrew, his eyes drooping contemptuously (with
when he first loved her. he thought of her pregnancy and felt sorry for
when he got home he could not sleep for a long time for thinking of what
when he had become a little quieter, he explained to rostóv that he was
when he had gone less than half a mile in the rear of the column he
“when he looked at my feet, friend... well, thinks i...”
when he needs repose? worldly conversation at a moment when his soul is
“when her confinement is due, send to moscow for an accoucheur.... let
when he reached kiev he sent for all his stewards to the head office
when he read that sentence, pierre felt for the first time that some
when he saw the minister seated at a large table reading some papers
when he stayed in (as he said) for pierre’s sake, hardly exchanged a
when he was dying of wounds and the sovereign had thanked him for heroic
when he wished to speak contemptuously, and noticing borís, prince
when, if you remember, he posed as a sort of marat at one of my soirees.
“when i saw, your excellency, that their first battalion was
when i say she’ll be a singer, a second salomoni! we have engaged an
when it came to natásha’s turn to choose a partner, she rose and,
when natásha ran out of the drawing room she only went as far as the
when paris was mentioned, mademoiselle bourienne for her part seized the
when prince andrew entered the study the old man in his old-age
when prince andrew left the palace he felt that all the interest
when prince andrew reached the room prepared for him and lay down in a
when princess mary came down, prince vasíli and his son were already
when princess mary returned from her father, the little princess sat
when princess mary went to him at the usual hour he was working at his
when prince vasíli returned to the drawing room, the princess, his
when rostóv went back there was a bottle of vodka and a sausage on the
when she began to speak passed through such transitions as she herself
when she had seen her guests out.
when she looked up at him she was struck by his beauty. anatole stood
when she said this, he did not reply and only bowed, but again everybody
when she saw pierre enter. though he was certainly rather bigger than
when she saw the count, she stretched out her arms to him, embraced his
when she took her seat opposite and beamed upon him also with her
when she was not like that and when everything was light and gay. she
“when speaking to the emperor, try as far as you can to praise the way
when starting on a journey or changing their mode of life, men capable
when telyánin had finished his lunch he took out of his pocket a double
when the eager but misrepeated words had reached their destination in
when the emperor had passed nearly all the regiments, the troops began
when the military governor had gone, prince vasíli sat down all alone
when the monotonous sound of weyrother’s voice ceased, kutúzov opened
when the officers had emptied and smashed their glasses, kírsten filled
when the princess, as if lost in a fog, had already staggered out of the
when the reading which lasted more than an hour was over, langeron again
when the review was over, the newly arrived officers, and also
when the subject did not relate to himself, but in connection with the
when the sun had entirely emerged from the fog, and fields and mist were
when the twenty minutes had elapsed and the time had come for the old
when they again heard an unexpectedly violent whistling which suddenly
when they drink, pressing his spurs mercilessly into the sides of his
when they played some tricks on a policeman, didn’t they do it
when they saw his looks.
when we were rejoicing at his happiness! and such a lofty angelic soul
“when would you like them, your excellency?” asked dmítri. “allow
when you began living for others. i experienced just the reverse. i
“when you see my sister, princess mary, you’ll get on with her,”
where.
“where am i? oh yes, in the skirmishing line... pass and
where a parade does not begin till all the troops are assembled,” said
“where are headquarters?”
“where are you going?” asked an infantry officer who was eating an
“where are you going to now, my dear sir?”
“where are you off to?” asked borís.
“where are you off to?” he said suddenly to prince andrew who had
whereas it was perhaps not known, since the enemy was in movement.
“where? at bykov’s, at the rat’s... i knew it,” replied a piping
“where have you put it, wostóv?”
where he could never have expected the enemy to be.
where he was staying, and had been absurd, excited, and foolish in
where his regiment was stationed, and take him to visit prince nicholas
“where is dólokhov?” asked kutúzov.
“where is it, that lofty sky that i did not know till now, but saw
“where is the commander in chief?” asked bolkónski.
“where is the emperor? where is kutúzov?” rostóv kept asking
“where is the princess?” he asked. “hiding?”
where’s the victory?”
where the clavichord stood.
“where the devil have the leg bands been shoved to?” said an
where the hottest musket fire and cannonade were heard. suddenly he
where the rivals suddenly recognized one another; and the ladies looked
where the sleighs had been left, in a small clearing in the pine forest
“where to?”
“where to?”
where to find me, but don’t forget that i do not regard either myself
where túshin’s guns were stationed was an unharnessed horse with a
“where would i not go at the countess’ command!” said denísov,
where you always ran away; you remember cette chère annette!”
whether he was speaking in jest or in earnest. “ah, your excellency!
whether he was still firm in his intention and determined to submit to
whether she ought to write, tormented her. now that he was already an
whether what he said was very witty or very stupid. he was dressed in
which a faint smile forgot to fade though his features now expressed
which an enormous map of the environs of brünn was spread out.
which aroused his own pity.
which at least half of them would be left on the field. after passing a
which attracted him. he very readily took up borís’ cause and went
which changed his appearance for the worse. there was something naïvely
which covered with snow, appeared on the landing where the footman
which denísov followed her.
which did not leave his eager face. “hoch oestreicher! hoch russen!
which dólokhov’s second had called on him, and, having closed the
which every freemason should cultivate in himself. these virtues were:
which forms an impenetrable veil between us and the eternal? let us
which had been particularly revived and strengthened by his late tour.
which had disappeared, but at french infantry who had come into the
which had grown much older.
which had lost all dignity, and at the twitching cheeks of prince
which he always deceived himself. the question was whether he could ever
which he found himself. anna pávlovna was obviously serving him up as
which he had come out was thronged with calèches, carriages of all
which he had reckoned up to ten thousand, but that now, as he vaguely
which he had worn on his italian campaign, sat on his small gray arab
which he held the hilt of his naked saber, looked just as it usually
which held him in their power.... the ten fell to him.
which he presented to prince bagratión. on the salver lay some verses
(which he very likely would be), and found the commander in chief
“which house is it?” asked the driver.
which ilyá rostóv blushed with self-conscious pleasure), the footmen
which, in accord with the club custom, he had given up to the hall
which indicates that patience is exhausted.
which i not only cannot address but which i cannot even express in
which intellectual knowledge is divided. the highest wisdom is one.
which intimated that he knew what he was about and if others did not
which i shall lead the army.”
which is the only thing we need fear, or he is changing his position.”
“which is the senior?” he asked, on seeing the prisoners.
which it is difficult to justify.”
which it rests and which no human power can destroy, is the preservation
which made a certain sensation, the count exchanged glances with
which nicholas rostóv served and which was in prince bagratión’s
which princess mary meekly submitted, just as her hair had been arranged
which seemed to him dazzlingly red, and at the feeble, round-shouldered
which seemed to rise out of the sea of mist and on which the russian
which seemed to say that he was not blaming anyone, but could not help
which seemed to stand rather than lie down on his massive shoulders. he
which several others joined but which bored pierre. when the music began
which she neither wished, nor could, nor considered it necessary, to
which she spoke of her exalted patroness, supported hélène’s wish.
which showed that he only understood the meaning of his words after he
which stood on her right. it reflected a weak, ungraceful figure and
which the cadet under fire for the first time had experienced.
which the guards prided themselves), the officers on foot and at their
which the prince had retained for himself.
which the rostóvs always attended. he was pointedly attentive to sónya
which the serfs’ manorial labor had been diminished, and heard the
which they were present, and went to iogel’s balls for young people
which though they embarrassed pierre awakened a joyful feeling in the
which to attack and defeat the enemy should he cross the lech. also,
which to reply to dólokhov’s words. but before he had thought of
which was a lie, and worse than a lie? i am guilty and must endure...
which was littered with books and papers. the princess was as untidy as
which was not clear to him, to question his chief steward, to visit his
which was offered him. telyánin for some reason had been transferred
which was presumably somewhere in the same neighborhood. and so it was
which was to be found “the cream of really good society, the bloom
which were to be the first to descend the heights to attack the french
which were uppermost in his mind at that moment, addressed prince andrew
(which would be very difficult), he would not be able to get back before
while dressing, and yet the question he was always putting off demanded
while father and son were having their explanation, the mother and
while he tried to prove to pierre that in his actions there was no
while in the rostóvs’ ballroom the sixth anglaise was being danced,
while on the scaffolding, in the midst of a talk explaining the future
while others sought some extraordinary explanation of so strange an
while prince andrew on the contrary, taking no part in the war and
while prince andrew went to report about the purple-faced general, that
while rostóv was thus arguing with himself and riding sadly away,
while the count was being turned over, one of his arms fell back
while the couples were arranging themselves and the musicians tuning up,
while the guests were taking their leave pierre remained for a long time
while these conversations were going on in the reception room and the
while the youngest, the one with the mole, who was of a cheerful and
while under the supervision of the countess and the solicitude of the
while we, on the other hand, with our left wing by far outflank his
whirled round it at full speed with her dress puffed out like a balloon,
whispered, and a shudder ran down her back.
whispered to him. “this happiness is for those who have not in them
whispered to one another, casting significant looks at him with a kind
whisper, “has compromised her completely, they say. pierre took him
whispering, and betraying by every word and movement that they none
whispers.
whispers, and, whenever anyone went into or came from the dying man’s
whistling, singing, and hissing continually around them. he spoke in the
white cossack coat, and bring him along to me.”
white foam from his bit, tramping the planks of the bridge with his
white foam on the waves of the enns, an officer, in a cloak and with
white hands with an air of calm importance.
white horse, was prince bagratión. prince andrew stopped, waiting for
white one, the white one!”
white plumes in his hat rode a bobtailed chestnut horse, the other who
white ruffle, outlining his rather long face which was lit up from
whites glittering and rolling as he waved his sheathed saber in a small
white teeth fiercely and spurring his black thoroughbred arab, which
“who?”
who also enjoyed the famous actress’ favors, and that in his presence
who always solved questions that seemed to him perplexing by deciding
who amuses himself in this sensible manner! and he was said to be so
who, angry and frightened, strode energetically along with downcast
who appeared at his call. “hurry off and tell maksím, the gardener,
“who are they? why are they here? what do they want? and when will
“who are you talking about?”
“who?” asked rostóv.
who, as they passed through in their ball dresses with diamonds and
who at the front had the power to annihilate him, a lieutenant of the
who at the rostóvs’ had jocularly assumed the role of natásha’s
who came to congratulate, and who constantly succeeded one another in
“who can tell, your honor?” replied the hussar reluctantly.
who could therefore be of use to him. he liked petersburg and despised
who—dreading this love affair which might hinder nicholas from making
whoever he may be, exhort him who goeth astray, raise him that falleth,
who evidently understood his case and wished him nothing but good,
(who gazed with curiosity at the soldiers) were not russians, the
who gives himself the airs of a monarch.”
who had come into the room unnoticed by anyone, stood there and wiped
who had come up to the cot with noiseless steps, lifted the curtain,
who had evidently just arrived, entered quickly, slamming the door.
who had grown old in society and at court. he went up to anna pávlovna,
who had him under observation, interrupted:
who had lolled in anna pávlovna’s easy chairs and with half-closed
who had marched so gaily and complacently. but at the moment the first
who had recently opened a restaurant there with girls as waitresses.
who had sheltered in the village houses. they all rushed out of
who had spoken to him on behalf of her only son borís on the evening of
who had stolen some boots from the recruits; i should even have been
who had wished to stop the affair ran to a corner of the room and threw
who have striven to attain this mystery, and thereby to render them
“who is it you want?” he asked. “the commander in chief? he was
who, jesting and laughing, stared at their strange foreign enemies.
who kept her waiting some minutes. “don’t you wish to serve me? then
who kissed his hand.
“who? kutúzov?” asked rostóv.
who lays back her ears and continues to crouch motionless before her
whole army.”
whole army it is still uncertain whether he is alive or not. i comfort
whole body jerked at each step. the eldest princess followed him, and
whole dining hall, and last of all the children, tutors, and governesses
whole mass of men was concentrated.
whole set. yes, you’re all right! choose what you will; it’s all the
whole tenor of his thoughts instantaneously changed; the battle seemed
who, liking work, knew how to do it, and despite his indolence would
who looked at her, after being in her company and talking to her a
who made her a low bow when she met him in the corridor carrying hot
whom all the regiment knew for a rogue.
whom did you apply?”
who met him with the cross oppressed the peasants by his exactions, and
whom he had promised to take home.
whom he now found nothing in common. “we will go after dinner. and
whom he was again talking with the same involuntary smile. sónya wore
whom i mention this, because i like you.”
“whom shall i announce?”
whom should i say that? either to a power indefinable, incomprehensible,
who on kutúzov’s staff in charge of the provisioning of the russian
who ran downstairs and looked over from the halfway landing.
who recognized him and said a few words to him, disjointed and awkward,
who remained behind, and the monotonous tramp of thousands of feet
who’s a better man than you in every way...”
“who sacrificed everything for him,” chimed in the princess, who
“whose company?” asked prince bagratión of an artilleryman standing
whose state of unconquerable childish embarrassment now changing to
whose words struck pierre more and more by their precision and firmness.
“who should it be? you yourself told him to come. it’s the
“who’s that curtseying there? cadet miwónov! that’s not wight!
“who’s that running on the middle of the bridge? to the right! come
“who’s that? why? wait a moment!” anatole’s face seemed to say.
     who still is thinking but of thee!
who stood in the midst of the group, without a coat, and with his fine
“who the devil has put the logs on the road?” snarled he.
“who told you that? who?” cried the prince. “suvórov!” and he
who was a secretary to the embassy, bolkónski was already acquainted.
who was associated by memories of the italian campaign with the name of
who was in a high fever. these last days, mistrusting their household
who was kissing her hand, “you’re feeling dull in moscow, i daresay?
who was passing:
who was reduced to the ranks, took a french officer prisoner in my
who was sitting silently beside him, what he thought of tomorrow’s
“who was that?” asked borís.
“who was that? the military governor himself?” was being asked at
who will not refuse to accompany you.”
who, with his face buried in the ground and a blackened nape, lay on his
“wh-what is the matter?” asked both the young and old rostóv.
“why?”
“why?”
why.
“why a blue coat? off with it... sergeant major! change his coat...
“why aren’t you beginning, michael ilariónovich?” said the
“why aren’t you serving in the army?”
“why are they down on me?” thought túshin, looking in alarm at his
“why are you crying, mamma?” asked véra. “from all he says one
“why are you going? i know you think it your duty to gallop back to
why are you hindering us?” another in the same place turned round and
“why are you so glum?” asked nesvítski noticing prince andrew’s
why did i bind myself to her? why did i say ‘je vous aime’ * to her,
“why didn’t you capture one, just one, marshal for us?”
“why didn’t you mention it, prince? i would have offered you
“why did sónya run away?” asked rostóv.
“why did they write, why did lise tell me about it? it can never
“why did you not succeed in impressing on bonaparte by diplomatic
why doesn’t the frenchman stab him? he will not get away before the
“why doesn’t the red-haired gunner run away as he is unarmed?
“why, don’t you hear it?” rostóv asked again, after waiting for a
“why don’t you play?” he asked.
“why don’t you renew the acquaintance?” said dólokhov to rostóv.
“why don’t you speak, cousin?” suddenly shrieked the princess so
“why do they want to make her sing? how can she sing? there’s
“why do you say this young man is so rich?” asked the countess,
“why do you shout so? you’ll frighten them!” said borís. “i did
“why, for this reason! my father is one of the most remarkable men of
“why have we stopped? is the way blocked? or have we already come up
“why have you thrown that away?” asked borís.
“why, have you too much money?”
“why, i didn’t recognize you!” he said. but rostóv was otherwise
“why? i love you more than ever,” said princess mary, “and i will
“why, is it late?”
“why is it wrong?” urged prince andrew. “it is not given to man
“why is it you were never at annette’s?” the little princess asked
“why no, my dear fellow,” said the astonished narrator, shrugging
“why not?” inquired borís.
“why not wash? that is not cleanly,” said prince andrew; “on the
“why run risks, captain? you should dismount,” he said.
why she’s ashamed!”
“why should i envy them? my chance is not lost, and maybe i shall see
“why should i mind monsieur pierre being here?” exclaimed the little
“why shouldn’t i speak? i can speak as i like, and i tell you
“why should you be ashamed?”
“why so?” asked prince andrew. “to kill a vicious dog is a very
“why talk nonsense? say what you want.”
“why terrible?” asked nicholas. “no, váska is a splendid
“why, that one, right at the end, the big one. don’t you see?
why they all looked so at him, and flattered by this general admiration
“why, this is a palace!” she said to her husband, looking around
“why,” thought prince andrew, “that’s the captain who stood up
“why ‘what the devil’?” said borís, picking it up and reading
“why, you remember before you went away?... well, she says you are to
wider than ours, and it was plain that they could easily outflank us
width of the field, an enormous mass of cavalry in brilliant white
wife: “ah, why have you done this to me?”
wife and her tall cap with its light-blue ribbons, and busily filled
wife, and that it could not be otherwise.
wife... god bless you!...”
wife, how she would love him become quite different, and how all he had
wife’s command had let his hair grow and abandoned his spectacles,
wife, sister, and future son, and the tenderness he had felt the night
wife, was talking in low tones to the elderly lady about pierre.
wife, while you...”
wild virgin pine forest, and far away on the other side of the enns the
will accept them,” said nesvítski (who like the others concerned in
will all die for him gladly! is it not so, gentlemen? perhaps i am not
will all end in nothing!”
will all the same never be like those petersburg young men.”
willarski bowed his head.
willarski was silent throughout the drive. to pierre’s inquiries as
willarski, whom pierre had known slightly in petersburg society, came
will be cut off,” said he.
will begin. and he says buonaparte is in braunau! shows you’re a fool.
will be my teacher...” and lowering his big arm he offered it to the
will certainly be granted. pierre will get everything as the legitimate
will certainly happen!” thought pierre, glancing at those dazzling
will come!”
will come back in a rage. will you have coffee?”
willing, are going to die in the regiment, we prize the honor of the
will in pierre’s favor are among the count’s papers, then, my dear
will just be time.”
will not reach your regiment before peace is concluded, or you will
will not rest until they have gained their end, and are prepared if
will pass here immediately; it will please him to see these gentlemen
will slash at him!” thought rostóv, gripping the hilt of his saber.
will. the races, the english club, sprees with denísov, and visits to
“will they burn the bridge or not? who’ll get there first? will they
will they cross pomerania?”
will to tell only what happened. it is very difficult to tell the truth,
“will you bet? the ribbon of the order is a different matter....”
“will you have the portmanteaus brought in? and a bed got ready, and
window and from dólokhov’s back. anatole stood erect with staring
window, from which the double frame had been removed (by order of the
window. nesvítski, moving his moist lips as he chewed something, and
window sill.
window sill, with a pale but radiant face.
windows opening into the conservatory, with its large bust and full
wind to carry away. a pleasant humming and whistling of bullets were
“wine? gluttony? idleness? laziness? irritability? anger? women?”
wine with dignity and looking to the count for approval.
wings, hoping before evening and before the arrival of the emperor to
wing with the other, prince andrew met mademoiselle bourienne smiling
winter of 1806, which nicholas rostóv spent in moscow, was one of the
wiping them on the sleeves of their greatcoats. all their faces were
wisdom.”
wish?”
wished both to rebuke him (for daring to speak as he had done of a man
wished to do something special on meeting his friend. he wanted to pinch
wished to help him but could not.
wished to make some suggestion. but prince vasíli interrupted him in
wished to say something more, but at that moment prince vasíli and his
wished to see the regiment just in the state in which it had been on
wished to take another seat so as not to trouble the lady, and also to
wishes; that is my only reason for being here. i came simply to help him
wishes to stay with me, let him... he’ll be of use here if he’s a
wishes to test me!” his heart contracted and the blood rushed to his
wishing to avail himself of their courtesy, and this caused some delay
wishing to find out where the commander in chief was, he rode up to
wishing to rid himself of this staff officer’s company, “please
wishing to show her connections and knowledge of what went on in
wishing to show him that she did not even dare expect to interest him,
wishing to take it off, but let it drop again. the five minutes spent
wish or not to be prince anatole kurágin’s wife? reply: yes or no,”
wish to be seen in that mood, for hearing footsteps in the passage he
wish, to court society’s favor. now he alone was blamed for what had
with a bashful and awkward gesture not at all like a military salute
with a bottle wrapped in a napkin passed him by. he frowned, trying to
with a calm smile that she was not so stupid as to be jealous: ‘let
with a clear, bright expression, as if asking them to notice how calmly
with a clever face and sharply projecting jaw which, without spoiling
with a decanter on a tray as “my dear” and “my sweet,” asked
with a decorous smile of self-satisfaction at being able clearly to
with a distressed face left the room to find sónya.
with a facetious smile on his face, he was telling the ladies about last
with a foretaste of artistic pleasure.
with a friendly smile.
with a gloomy and tired face, was wearily taking off his wraps with the
with a heart full despair he rode away, continually looking back at the
with a hum of conversation, like the hum of bees swarming in springtime.
with a look of nervous agitation such as pierre had never before seen on
with a look the significance of which could not be understood by mortal
“with a message to his majesty.”
with a mournful expression.
with a mouse.
with an apoplectic flush over neck and nape as old people do.
with an enormous mouth, hardly refraining from laughing, “i felt like
with an f, as a village elder of mine writes in his reports. she is rich
with an old mother and a hunchback sister, and was the most affectionate
with anything in regard to her; and that always will be so in whatever
with a pleasant feeling that there was something à la louis xv in the
with a rapid, almost brutal movement of her head, she intercepted his
with a scared look and that princess mary was no longer by the cot.
with a sense of antipathy to the old prince which she did not
with a sense of relief at having performed a vexatious duty and did not
with a serious expression, but with a smile lurking at the corners of
with a sigh.
with a sigh he could not suppress, as they passed out of the palace.
with a sigh. this might have been taken as an expression of sorrow
with a sinking heart—watching the bridge and the hussars in the bright
with a smile.
with a strength he had never before felt, he made a step toward her
with a subtle smile.
with a thoroughly attractive woman, her defect—the shortness of her
with a trembling voice and some difficulty in utterance due to his
with a wink, and passed on followed by another, an old man.
with banks still bare of grass. it was at the end of a village that
with bread and salt and wished to build a chantry in honor of peter and
with carts that it was impossible to get by in a carriage. prince andrew
with dólokhov. “none but fools trust to luck in play,” dólokhov
with elasticity of movement, faith in his good fortune, and generally in
with enjoyment, gazing with ever-increasing amiability at the other
with evident pleasure.
with exaggerated politeness.
with flour whitening their carts—on that narrow dam amid the wagons
with frightened eyes; the second assumed precisely the same expression;
with germans all day. we went with weyrother to survey the dispositions.
with gossip,” he continued. “just now they are talking about you and
with great difficulty he managed to get to his horse, and shouting
with grief, though he tried hard to hide it in order not to sadden his
with her and picked up her reticule and drove out with her. how did it
with her beautiful eyes full of tears at the door through which prince
with her head bent first on one side and then on the other.
with her. he kissed her hand and addressed her not as thou but as
with her knitting. princess mary took a book and began reading. only
with her to the side of the room where stood the high bedstead with its
with him.”
with him remained in his room; a small box, a large canteen fitted
with himself and those around him, his smile and glance were brighter
with him. there now, sídorov!”
with him to dolgorúkov.
with his cap on the back of his black head and a cloak hanging jauntily
with his daughter, princess mary, and her companion, mademoiselle
with his eccentric father.
with his eyes bandaged seemed to him an hour. his arms felt numb,
with his face in his hands.
with his feelings but with the very possibility of life. life without
with his foot.
with his glistening wide-open eyes fixed upon him and his mustache
with his glittering, black eyes at rostóv.
with his handkerchief, sat down by natásha and did not leave her for
with his podgy old hands resting symmetrically on its arms. at the sound
with his right hand, then falling on one knee he twirled her round him,
with his right thumb under a button of his uniform, his chest expanded
with his small hand.
with his thin legs, went up to kutúzov.
with his whole body as if in that position he hoped to hasten the speed
within.
within a few days. princess mary and the old prince each bore and hid
within grapeshot range now.”
within half an hour adjutants had been sent in various directions with
with it hidden for awhile; then looking up and seeing pierre she
with it to the marshals, and ordered the action to begin. the marshals,
with jests and to come to business. he involuntarily looked round at the
with kisses, holding him tight by the skirt of his coat, sprang away and
with kutúzov’s cantata, laid one before pierre as one of the
with lanterns, standing at the entrance. she went out on the stairs. on
with lighted tapers in their hands, slowly and solemnly conducting the
“with my father and sister, remember,” said prince andrew gently.
with napoleon if, contrary to expectations, these negotiations were
with natásha, piquet with his father, and even his comfortable bed
with none of the embarrassment so commonly shown by young men in their
with one another. again the footmen rushed about, chairs scraped, and
with one leg crossed high above the other. his cheeks, which were so
without an inner struggle; “at such a moment as this one must think
without answering, rostóv shook the soldier’s cross of st. george
without any command being given, apparently obstructed by something in
without any definite position, without relations or even a country, did
without at all noticing that his involuntary smile had stabbed the heart
without boasting that it was a little better than at ulm...”
without changing his careless attitude, pierre looked at them over his
without delay and carry out instructions!
without eating.”
without going out of the house, waiting for the money his father could
without his boots (he had given them to the canteen keeper to dry),
without his greatcoat, with his orders on his breast and an enormous
without his noticing it the feeling of offense immediately turned into
without laughing, but could not resist looking at him: so to be out of
without looking at him, and with a kind of fury that made him like his
without looking at the man he was addressing, and did not reply to
without losing step, his whole powerful body turning flexibly. it was as
without male society, on anatole’s appearance all the three women of
without moving, undertaking nothing....”
without omitting her duties as hostess, threw significant glances from
without reading it and reread his father’s letter, ending with the
without reasoning. with an affectation of respect which evidently struck
without receiving any explanation.
without support. prince bagratión turned to the officer and with his
without taking any notice of him although they were now meeting for the
without turning their heads glanced at one another, curious to see their
without wars. how is it that we women don’t want anything of the kind,
with papers from kutúzov to the tsarévich, he looked in on borís,
with particular courtesy ushered prince andrew before him along a
with pleasure to his own voice. “all i can say, general, is that if
with prince bagratión’s detachment.”
with profit. the first and chief object of our order, the foundation on
with rapid rhythmic whistle flew over the heads of the horsemen and fell
with red light like a russian church during evening service. under
with shifting eyes but eyebrows still raised, telyánin handed him the
with shinshín. berg gave his arm to véra. the smiling julie karágina
with silver plate, two turkish pistols and a saber—a present from
with so and-so,’ and then i take a cab and go myself two, three, or
with something. it was a coffin with bones inside. he was not at all
with something more than curiosity and sympathy. he noticed that they
with such exactitude that nesvítski could not help laughing. kutúzov
with telyánin and bogdánich. that affair was the same thing as this
with tender smiles was saying to véra that love is not an earthly but
with the air of an old brigadier.
with the cooperation of all, by the millions of generations from our
with the delight boys feel at the sight of a military elder brother, and
with the expression with which people compliment their host at a ball.
with the flirtatiousness of a handsome youth at sónya and the young
with the full swing of a bludgeon. it hurt a little, but the worst of
with the gentle, patronizing intonation natural to a man of importance
with the hussar colonel on his left and shinshín and the other male
with their management and embezzlement of money, some after their first
with their plumes, ribbons, and medals, both courtiers and military
with the lassitude of age, sat yawning wearily with closed eyes. the
with the naked eye prince andrew saw below them to the right, not more
with the old prince.”
with the physical pain. it was they, these soldiers—wounded and
with the rank of lieutenant; but as it is i receive two hundred and
with the river between himself and the main body of the french. on the
with the same expression on his full, cheerful, clean-shaven face, the
with the self-satisfaction of a man on parade, he stepped lightly with
with these words she greeted prince vasíli kurágin, a man of high
with the soldier, an infantry officer with a bandaged cheek came up to
with the strict formality of his house. at that moment the great clock
with thoughts and anxieties as to be oblivious of his presence. he
with trembling hands, threw his body across the saddle, righted himself,
with upraised arms.
with us.”
with which he listened to pierre, especially when he spoke with joyful
with you alone! god knows how long we may again be parted. you are not
with you. i can’t.”
“with you i will be quite frank,” said anna mikháylovna. “there
with you. may i?” he added in a low voice so as not to disturb the
woman; and what have you done? you have not helped her to find the way
woman, but there, just fancy! those three got hold of a bear somewhere,
    * “woman is man’s companion.”
woman. now i have spoken that terrible word to myself all has become
woman’s privilege.”
woman who may belong to anyone—to you too,” said her glance. and at
woman. with a slight rustle of her white dress trimmed with moss
women.
women.”
women are when you see them in their true colors! when you meet them
women have that dress can make a face pretty.
“women,” he said in a low, scarcely audible voice.
women’s gloves, he said: “dear brother, these woman’s gloves are
women, ‘women and wine’ i don’t understand!”
wonderful classic beauty of her figure, his face on the contrary
won’t be in action,” he added as if in apology.
won’t get there till evening.”
won’t go.”
“won’t you come over to the other table?” suggested anna
wood.
wooden walls redolent of pine, and would have gone farther, but antón
word.
word; and he sat down at the nearest table.
word, “and you believed it! well, what have you proved? what does this
word infected the whole crowd with a feeling of panic.
word of honor not to take anything more till the spring. now only twelve
word or slight rearrangement kept the conversational machine in steady,
words but could not distinguish them. the din of many voices was too
words could do. you will perhaps also see in your further initiation a
words: “gallop off to kórchevo and carry out instructions!”
words, he added, “don’t be hurt, my dear fellow; you know i speak
words he had found so difficult to utter: “i love you.” “it all
words. if you are going to fight a duel, and you make a will and write
words: “morning dawned, the sun was rising,” and concluding: “on
words of rostopchín, that french soldiers have to be incited to battle
words), others were eating bread; the more severely wounded looked
words—the great all or nothing-” said he to himself, “or to
words to the soldiers who were carrying him, now with his eyes fixed
words. touched that this statuesque princess could so change, pierre
words with vague yet joyful ideas. the door opened and someone came in.
word that hardenburg says, or haugwitz either. this famous prussian
word “waiting.”) “not all the columns have formed up yet, your
word would effectively prove to prince vasíli the invalidity of his
work and study. and if pierre was often struck by andrew’s lack
workbag.”
work, chimes to play, figures to pop out, and the hands to advance with
working and looked up with that curious expression of inner, happy calm
working herself up to tears with the imaginary words of her pauvre mère
work nearer to her.
work. on a third estate the priest, bearing a cross, came to meet
world!”
world a quite different atmosphere, careless, lighthearted, and
worldly sciences of physics, history, chemistry, and the like, into
world. prince andrew was the first to move away, ruffling his hair
worn and irritable. the infantry passing before him came to a halt
worn leather, and an officer’s saber with a sword knot. the don horse
worse, and it is absolutely necessary to prepare him if he is so ill.
worse than others.”
worse, would have thought that rostóv was himself to blame since what
worthless scoundrel whose whole life could not atone for his crime. he
worthy of it. this rescript began with the words: “sergéy kuzmích,
“wostóv, deah fellow, just see how much there is left and shove the
“wostóv, get up!”
“wostóv, you’ve not been playing schoolboy twicks...”
would again have risen had not the prince still held her fast, “though
would appear as he passed the commander.
would at last start on that path of regeneration and on the actively
would be easier to see people coming along it. “follow me!” said he,
would be good if everything were as clear and simple as it seems to
would be killed.
would be particularly pleasant to him to dishonor my name and ridicule
would be something unnatural, and as it seemed to him dishonorable, in
would be taken immediately to free his serfs—and that till then they
would be to betray her agitation, while to decline their offers to
would be too extraordinary,” and at the very moment she thought this,
would be transferred to the guards at once?” said she.
would be wiser for him to leave petersburg. pierre proposed going to his
would find himself in the position of mack at ulm. if kutúzov decided
would give way not only under a cannon or a crowd, but very soon even
would happen to him and still more afraid of showing his fear. he felt
would have addressed yourself first to me. in that case you would not
would have hit alpátych, the overseer, had not the latter instinctively
would have made them.
would have me be, but i have never had help from anyone.... but it is
would have seemed so unnatural had anyone disliked him, that he could
would have taken the icon, but she stopped him. andrew understood,
would i not give now to be unmarried! you are the first and only one to
would magnanimously extend the hand of reconciliation.
would meet.
would not be bad as regards the unwritten code,” thought borís),
would not have taken lovers (des amants), but i have not done so,”
would not see us for a whole fortnight. i know it was then he wrote this
“would not such a meeting be too trying for him, dear anna
would not supply them. pierre was obliged to wait. without undressing,
“would not your excellency like a little refreshment?” he said.
would occupy a most brilliant position in society. don’t you think so?
would still remain piteous and plain. after two or three changes to
would take place on this side of it...
“would you believe it, count, i was not at all alarmed, because i knew
would you now like to look round my place?”
wounded and captured russian officers he was carried to the hospital.
wounded, and one knocked out,” he added, unable to restrain a happy
wounded had been abandoned on the other side of the danube with a letter
wounded—had left it long ago. all about the field, like heaps of
wounded in the right hand, taken his sword in the left, and gone
wounded officer?”
wounded soldier was so dirty, coarse, and revolting that his proximity
wounded under him and his own arm slightly grazed by a bullet. as a mark
wounded were more distinctly heard than any other sound in the darkness
wounded where there was no one left to fire at, on seeing an adjutant
wounds, the loss of family—i fear nothing. and precious and dear
wrath. having snapped at an officer for an unpolished badge, at another
wretched mood. at nine in the morning, he heard firing in front and
wringing her hands.
wrinkled, clean-shaven cheek for pierre to kiss and would say: “till
wrinkled soles and palms.
wrists visible from under the shirt cuffs, laid down the pack and took
“write to her and let me know how her father looks at the matter. au
write, told rostóv the contents of his letter.
writing, so that his quill spluttered and squeaked. “if you have
written, “still, i should not cry, but you can’t... no one can
wrong, and further that he was disagreeable and unnatural.
wrong and that to discuss the bad news was difficult, and so it was best
wrote himself,” said she through her tears.
xvii, for the queen, or for madame elizabeth? nothing!” and he became
yards was all that separated them. the enemy ceased firing, and that
year?” said “the man of profound intellect.” “why shouldn’t
years before, it seemed impossible that the little creature who lived
years older than her sister and behaved already like a grown-up person),
years ... then i will ask for your hand.”
“yes.”
“yes.”
“yes, and even tomorrow,” replied her brother.
“yes, and he is over sixty. i hear the count no longer recognizes
“yes, and i have some money and a letter to give you,” he added.
“yes and no mistake!” cried denísov. “you worked like wegular
“yes, a regular volcano,” said the count. “takes after me! and
“yes, bring some.”
“yes, but between ourselves,” said the princess, “that is a
“yes, but he will dislike it extremely,” said bolkónski.
“yes, but it is not as you imagine,” prince andrew continued. “i
“yes, but you are not the only one. there are your sisters...”
“yes, count,” she would say, “he is too noble and pure-souled for
“yes, dmítri, clean ones, please,” said the countess, sighing
“yes, everything is different nowadays, everything is changed. the
“yes, father, i have come to you and brought my wife who is
“yes, from olmütz,” he answered, with a sigh.
“yes, gentlemen, i’ve been told there’s a rumor going about moscow
“yes, god be thanked! yes! they’ve just finished supper. let me have
“yes, he is very handsome,” thought pierre, “and i know him. it
yes, hospitals, medicine. he has a fit, he is dying, and you come and
“yes, i am, but please don’t let us do like that.... in another four
“yes, i belong to the brotherhood of the freemasons,” said the
“yes: ideas of robbery, murder, and regicide,” again interjected an
“yes, i do believe in god,” he repeated.
“yes, i do wish it,” said he.
“yes, i’d send them on in front, but no fear, they’re crowding up
“yes, i feel a kind of oppression,” she said in reply to the
“yes, if having obtained power, without availing himself of it to
“yes, if you put it like that it’s quite a different matter,” said
“yes, i have heard of his scheme for perpetual peace, and it is very
“yes... i... i... desire regeneration,” pierre uttered with
“yes, i knew it long ago but had forgotten. i knew that i could expect
“yes, immediately, immediately! hey, who’s there?” he called out
“yes, i’m tired too,” said rostóv.
“yes, indeed!”
“yes, indeed,” replied the princess with a sigh. “so he may have
“yes, i never loved her,” said he to himself; “i knew she was a
“yes, i saw him, and am convinced that he fears nothing so much as
“yes, it can’t be helped if they won’t take less. ah, dear me! i
“yes, it is all very horrid,” interrupted pierre, “very horrid.”
“yes, it is very likely that i shall be killed tomorrow,” he
“yes, it’s a nice purse. yes, yes,” he said, growing suddenly
“yes, it seems he is ill. people are always disturbing him,”
“yes, it’s from julie,” replied the princess with a timid glance
“yes... it’s getting on, it will all be settled today.” anna
“yes, i was a fool! i still believed in people, loved them, and
“yes, i was brought up quite differently,” remarked the handsome
“yes, i was thinking”—for some reason borís could not help
“yes, just the same. though i don’t know what your opinion will
yes, killed my wife’s lover. yes, that was it! and why? how did i come
“yes, let’s go in and i will get myself a roll and some cheese,”
“yes, my dear, this is a great loss for us all, not to speak of you.
“yes, my sónya could not have done otherwise!” thought nicholas.
“yes, now you may be glad!” said she; “this is what you have
“yes, one is afraid,” continued the first speaker, he of the
“yes, please do,” answered the general, and he repeated the order
“yes, please do,” said rostóv.
“yes,” replied a footman in a bold loud voice, as if anything were
“yes,” said natásha. “do you know, nicholas—don’t be
“yes,” said rostóv as if it cost him a great deal to utter the
“yes,” said the countess when the brightness these young people had
“yes, sir.”
“yes, sir.”
“yes, sir, and there’s a light in your father’s study.”
“yes, so it is, so it is,” said the general angrily, lowering the
“yes, stories!” repeated rostóv loudly, looking with eyes suddenly
yesterday and the question presented itself whether he ought or ought
yesterday’s order. have you got it, denísov?”
“yes, that all happened!” he said, and, smiling happily to himself
“yes, that must be so,” thought pierre, when after these words the
“yes, that’s me!” she seemed to say, answering the rapt gaze with
“yes, that was fine,” said rostóv, smiling.
“yes, the austrian prince who built that castle was no fool. it’s
“yes, the ham was just delicious...” answered another with a loud
“yes, these verses nicholas wrote himself and i copied some others,
“yes, they are splendid, splendid youngsters,” chimed in the count,
“yes, this is the one thing left me now,” he said with a sigh.
“yes, we have altered much, very much, since then,” said prince
“yes, we know that, but the harm i am conscious of in myself is
“yes, yes,” assented pierre.
“yes, yes,” assented pierre.
“yes, yes, do so.”
“yes, yes, go and tell them to get it ready,” she answered,
“yes, yes,” he muttered, “it will be difficult, i fear, difficult
“yes, yes, i am unhappy,” assented pierre. “but what am i to
“yes... yes, i believe in god,” he said.
“yes, yes, if you please! it is already late,” said he, and nodding
“yes, yes; just so! bring it. give it to the countess.”
“yes, yes,” muttered bagratión as if considering something, and he
“yes, yes, of course,” interrupted prince vasíli impatiently,
“yes, yes, of course!” pierre chimed in, pleased at the arrival of
“yes, yes, that is so,” said pierre joyfully.
yes! yes! yes! don’t look at me with such surprise. if you marry
“yes, you do not know him, my dear sir,” said the mason. “you
“yes, you have seen him?” said prince andrew. “well, what is
“yes, you might, but i am afraid of getting the accounts mixed. so i
“yes, you’re quite right,” continued the countess. “till now i
“yes, your excellency,” answered the ukrainian gaily, tossing his
“yes, your excellency. forgive me for heaven’s sake... it was only
“yes, you talk, but try it yourself!”
yet at the same time was conscious of his strength as a part of that
yet a young woman. escaping from her father she ran to hide her flushed
yet. he felt that he must not say it.
yet it was she, dressed in a new gown which he did not know, made since
yet occupied that region, and the russians—the uninjured and slightly
yet the ladies themselves could not help laughing.
yet with a hope for the fulfillment of her forbidden earthly longing)
yet with unhesitating assurance that he was doing the right thing,
     you.”
you!”
you.”
you?”
“you absolutely must come and see me,” she said in a tone that
you, all!” he added in a tone of command.
“you always manage to do things at the wrong time,” continued véra.
you and make you weep.
“you and your generals won’t get on against buonaparte; you’ll
you a place in my carriage. i am very glad. all our important business
“you are a little slyboots,” she said.
you are all blubberers and understand nothing.”
“you are an angel: i am not worthy of you, but i am afraid of
“you are good in every way, andrew, but you have a kind of
“you are in love with me?” natásha broke in.
“you are joking,” replied pierre, growing more and more excited.
“you are mistaken,” said borís deliberately, with a bold and
“you are most welcome! i know, i know,” said the count, kissing and
you are not aware of the fact...”
“you are off to the war, prince?” said anna pávlovna.
“you are seeking for truth in order to follow its laws in your life,
“you are still the same dreamer, i see,” remarked borís, shaking
“you are the commander of the emperor alexander’s regiment of horse
“you are unhappy, my dear sir,” the stranger continued. “you
“you are wounded?” he asked, hardly able to master the trembling of
you at last decided on anything? are you going to be a guardsman or a
“you at least must tackle him properly, or else if he goes on like
“you, bolkónski, don’t know,” said bilíbin turning to prince
you, but we’ll see what will happen. buonaparte has become a great
you, but why should i bother about you? you’d be only too glad, of
“you call him váska? that’s funny! and is he very nice?”
you!” came from different sides.
“you came rushing into the drawing room so that everyone felt ashamed
“you can give the message to his majesty,” said dolgorúkov,
“you can’t come in! you can’t!” said a terrified voice from
you can’t wait a moment! don’t you see the general wants to pass?”
you can undertake the theater, i society, and you, hippolyte, of course
    * “you clear out of this.”
“you couldn’t see a thing. how they shot at their own fellows!
you cry, sónya, dear love, darling sónya!” and she kissed her and
you’d better listen more carefully!”
you, dear mary, that in spite of his extreme youth his departure for
you did gain a brilliant victory, if even the archduke karl gained a
“you did not get my letter?” he asked, and not waiting for a
“you don’t mind your honor?” he asked túshin. “i’ve lost my
“you don’t say so!” replied the countess.
“you don’t understand why i say this,” he continued, “but it is
     * you expect to make an income out of the government.
“you forget yourself, colonel. i am not considering my own pleasure
“you give me your word of honor not to go?”
you going, when you might remain here? you are faced by one of two
“you had better go.”
“you had better take care!” said the countess.
“you have a try, hercules,” said he, turning to pierre.
you have been entered in the diplomatic corps and made a gentleman of
“you have been in paris recently, i believe? i suppose it’s very
“you have earned the st. george’s standards and will be worthy of
“you have not yet seen my husband?”
“you haven’t read the letter?” asked sónya.
“you have only lately arrived?” the countess asked him.
you hurry up? now then!”
you? i’m awfully glad you’re my brother.” she touched his
you—is that that man suffers, and this don juan, wicked fellow, is
“you just wait a moment, my dear fellow, and listen,” interrupted
“you know bilíbin—he’s a very clever fellow. he suggested
“you know her husband, of course?” said anna pávlovna, closing her
“you know him not, my dear sir, and so you are very unhappy. you do
“you know, michael ilariónovich, we are not on the empress’ field
“you know, mon cher, your father and i had some accounts to settle, so
“you know n— n— received a snuffbox with the portrait last
“you know, prince, i am not a bonapartist!”
“you know,” said the princess in the same tone of voice and still in
“you know they’ve come, marie?” said the little princess, waddling
“you live in the country and don’t think the life terrible,” he
you’ll be appointed adjutant somewhere and can snap your fingers when
“you’ll die and all will end. you’ll die and know all, or cease
you’ll like it,” and he patted her cheek. “it will drive all the
“you’ll make a fine thing of it, deploying in sight of the enemy!
“you may go,” he said to anatole.
“you may punt,” he said.
“you might have taken some from the covering troops.”
“you must do as you please,” said prince bolkónski, bowing to his
“you must excuse me, dear vicomte,” said prince vasíli to the
“you must look for husbands for them whether you like it or not....”
“you must walk, walk as much as possible, as much as possible,” he
“you, my little countess, are a notorious spendthrift,” said the
“you need not have said that to me, father,” said the son with a
young aide-de-camp with a smile.
young, all our octogenarians were reviewed, and of prozoróvski
young and old men and women pierre could not understand why he did not
young ever to be more to me than a friend, but this sweet friendship,
young face to look back. a shudder of terror went through him: “no,
young girls ready for anything and full of hope—experienced the same
young ladies. “i can just imagine what a funny figure that policeman
young lady visitor and the countess’ eldest daughter (who was four
young man can inspire in a romantic and loving young girl like yourself.
young man he did not know, with a peculiar cross hanging from his
young man. he sat with his legs up on the sofa as if quite at home and,
young man’s recent loss by the death of count bezúkhov (everyone
young man’s shoulder.
young man was an illegitimate son of count bezúkhov, a well-known
young master. “can it be? my treasure!” and prokófy, trembling with
young nicholas rostóv, who with his enthusiasm could not bear to remain
young rostóv.
young son, resting on him and winking joyfully at him. young rostóv
young woman, so soon to become a mother, so full of life and health, and
young. you need advice. don’t be angry with me for exercising an old
you not rest here?”
“you ought to have been there at seven in the morning.”
“you owe forty-three thousand, count,” said dólokhov, and
“you picked it up?... i dare say! you’re very smart!” one of them
you please, but do this for my sake! please do! father’s father, our
you positively that hélène is as innocent before you as christ was
your battalions. i will keep out of fire if you with your habitual
“your cousin...” dólokhov started to say, but nicholas interrupted
your denísov though he is a rake and all that, still i like him; so
your disposal.”
“your doctor tells you to go to bed earlier,” said prince andrew.
your doing so; but i warn you that if you dare to play the fool in my
“you’re always like that; you thwow a thing down anywhere and forget
your enchanting party,” said he, turning to anna pávlovna.
you’re wrong to think that of me... i... for me... for the honor of
“your excellency...”
“your excellency, here are two trophies,” said dólokhov, pointing
“your excellency, i should like to be of use here. allow me to remain
“your excellency, it’s the officer dólokhov, who has been reduced
“your excellency! let us attack them! i’ll dwive them off.”
“your excellency!” prince andrew broke the silence with his abrupt
“your excellency,” said he in german, stepping forward and
“your excellency,” said rostóv, “may i ask a favor?”
“your excellency, should not mary bogdánovna be sent for?” said one
“your excellency, you gave him leave yourself, on the march.”
your eyes,” added willarski. “i wish you courage and success,”
your father.”
your father is rich, i don’t regard myself as a relation of his, and
your father the truth when he was in favor, and in your case it’s my
your greatest pleasure is to be unpleasant to people! go and flirt with
your hands.” he spoke as if those bullets could not kill him, and his
“your honor, i thought...”
“your honor, the generals!” said the sergeant, riding up to rostóv.
“your honor, there he is!” cried one of the hussars behind him. and
“your honor, you’re wanted by the general. he is in the hut here,”
your interests as with a kinswoman, a good, kind, true relation. and i
“your joke is too bad, it’s witty but unjust,” said anna
your old father...” he paused unexpectedly, and then in a querulous
your presence; if she is willing, then he can stay on. he can stay and
“your regiment fulfilled its duty honorably,” said napoleon.
yours.”
yours? a daughter, i suppose?”
yourself and say you nearly ruined your life and only found happiness
yourself in a position to be attacked, but yourself to attack. believe
yourself in it. and now, when one wants to smooth the thing over, some
yourself, put a bridle on your senses, and seek blessedness, not in
yourselves. it must be here somewhere,” said lavrúshka.
your son bids fair to become an officer distinguished by his industry,
“your son,” wrote kutúzov, “fell before my eyes, a standard in
your victory is not a matter for great rejoicing and that you can’t be
you?” said the old prince to prince vasíli.
you say so much that is bad, does not seem to have had its usual effect
you see i do understand. i don’t know how to put it... with this one
“you see! i have asked,” whispered natásha to her little brother
“you see, my dear fellow, i have been thinking about you,”
“you see, my dear... what’s that mess?” she said, pointing to his
“you see, my fwiend,” he said, “we sleep when we don’t love. we
you seen duport?”
“you see yours is already an officer in the guards, while my nicholas
you select to be your worthy helpmeet in masonry.” and after a pause,
“you shan’t have it!” he said distinctly.
you—sónya. but their eyes met and said thou, and exchanged tender
“you speak to the colonel about this nasty business before other
“you spoke to me of inflammable material,” said he, “but you said
you tell me that among some good things it contains others which our
“you tell the colonel in the presence of other officers that an
youth and his wish to express all that was in his mind.
you that it would be very easy to do so if you haven’t sufficient
youthfully glittering eyes.
youthful movement, stood for a moment in the stirrup as if loathe to
“you think i’m an old man and don’t understand the present state
“you think so?” rejoined anna pávlovna in order to say something
“youth is no hindrance to courage,” muttered sukhtélen in a failing
“you thought!” shouted the prince, his words coming more and more
“you told me to remind you of the officer dólokhov, reduced to the
you to read when i am gone. you will find them useful.”
“you treat me like an invalid or a child. i see it all! did you behave
you understand that my sole desire is conscientiously to carry out his
you understand, your excellency, my dear sir, that you must not
“you value your own pride and don’t wish to apologize,” continued
“you’ve been in a hurry. that’s bad!”
“you’ve got it at last.”
“you’ve grown older, tíkhon,” he said in passing to the old man,
you’ve had to take,” cried he.
“you’ve only just missed him,” said the orderly.
you want to know whether i am happy? no! is she happy? no! but why this
you want to make something out of your company?”
you were about, challenged a man you are jealous of without cause.”
“you were meaning to go out, weren’t you, mamma? do you want the
you were not right, not quite in the right, you were impetuous...”
“you were saying, mr. staff officer...” continued the colonel in an
you, who do not believe in the truth of the light and who have not
“you will change it, won’t you?” said lise. and as princess mary
“you will find the beautiful hélène here, whom it is always
you will let me win this ten, or beat it.”
you will remember this, your excellency!”
you will see.”
“you will soon be dressing your men in petticoats! what is this?”
you with my saber!” he shouted, actually drawing his saber from its
you won’t ask!”
“you won’t ask,” natásha’s little brother was saying; “i know
“you won’t be able to find either your baggage or anything else now,
“you won’t bear me a grudge, prokhór ignátych?” said the
you won’t require it. we’ll go into the accounts later.”
you yourself reported to count buxhöwden yesterday, you must think of
“you...! you... scoundrel! i challenge you!” he ejaculated, and,
“zat, my dear sir, is vy...” he concluded, drinking a tumbler of
zere’s an end of it! and how do you, a young man and a young hussar,
zherkóv, not removing his hand from his cap, turned his horse about
zherkóv. they were under orders to advance next day.
zherkóv touched his horse with the spurs; it pranced excitedly from
zherkóv was followed by an officer of the suite who rode up to the
znaim.
“zum henker diese russen!” * muttered a german.
