he did not finish his sentence, but his tone showed how highly he
he did not find prince andrew in olmütz that day, but the appearance of
(he did not even dare to dream of that), but simply to die before his
he did not do it he would grieve and disappoint many people, but if he
he described the whole campaign with a fearless self-censure and
he could see puffs of musketry smoke that seemed to chase one another
he could not stop short for the sake of one man’s life.”
he could not look calmly at the standards of the passing battalions.
he could not finish, and ran out of the room.
“he could not do that. the people only gave him power that he might
he could from a frenchman into the wood. besides, to tell everything as
he continued to pace the room, looking gloomily at denísov and the
he consoled himself. “and besides, what have i done to bring it about?
he commanded was in an almost hopeless position. the spy reported that
he clutched at his head. “who is going to get me the flowers? dmítri!
he closed his eyes, and immediately a sound of cannonading, of musketry
“he chose his friends badly,” interposed anna mikháylovna.
he checked himself, fearing to seem naïve, yet he felt an irresistible
he chanced to meet dólokhov’s handsome insolent eyes, pierre felt
he cautiously released the shoulder she leaned on, looked into her face,
he caught a momentary glimpse between their heads and backs of the dying
he can’t help plowing and mowing; if he didn’t, he would go to the
he came to the point at once, treating her ceremoniously.
he called the cossack with his horse, told him to put away the knapsack
   he brings foemen to their knees,... etc.
he bowed his head and scraped first with one foot and then with the
he began the rescript again and again, but as soon as he uttered
he began pacing the room. the screaming ceased, and a few more seconds
heavy convoys (whose movements were concealed from the french) advance
“heavens! what a virulent attack!” replied the prince, not in the
“heaven only knows what the people here may imagine,” muttered
“heaven only knows, my dear! these rich grandees are so selfish.
“heaven knows what a fright might do.”
heated horses, exchanging remarks and smiling, had stopped behind the
“he asked you, and vasíli dmítrich * is also going.”
he asked, “whose company?” but he really meant, “are you
he, as if bragging of having been frightened.
heart! you are a madame de genlis and nothing more” (this nickname,
heartrending scene.... it was a convoy of conscripts enrolled from our
heart. “it has begun! here it is, dreadful but enjoyable!” was what
heart in the presence of the unfathomable did not lessen but increased.
hearing with pleasure the whistle of bullets evidently aimed at him.
hearing these words her face changed and something brightened in her
hearing that they wished to see the count, said his excellency was worse
hearing that cry and seeing to whom it was addressed, nesvítski and the
hearing or understanding her own words, what she had told hundreds of
hearing how ill he is.”
hearers—who like himself had often heard stories of attacks and had
heard, your honor, that a minister is coming to visit your honor.”
heard this sónya blushed so that tears came into her eyes and, unable
heard the words as he might have heard the buzzing of a fly. not only
heard the quick rustle of the countess’ dress. she came up to them.
heard them, and we shall all do our duty. but before a battle, there is
heard that the war was being discussed had turned from his partner with
heard respectfully congratulating the dying man on having received the
heard on every side.
heard musket fire quite close in front of him and behind our troops,
heard distinctly.
heard curses on bonaparte, “the enemy of mankind.” militiamen and
heard before, others simply enjoyed hearing how the master talked, while
heard a rustle behind him and a shadow appeared under the curtain of
heard, and out of the foggy darkness the figure of a sergeant of hussars
heard, and much farther to the right beyond the dragoons, the officer of
heard, and again something in his face twitched—“that is just why
heard.”
“he always was rather harsh; and now i should think he’s getting
he always thought only of whatever he was engaged on.
healthy body, and all the affection and care of his family. “and why
health was drunk, pierre, lost in thought, did not rise or lift his
“health to your ex... len... len... lency!” and again all became
health of our sovereign, the emperor!” he roared, “hurrah!” and
“health and happiness to her whose name day we are keeping and to her
health?”
health?”
head (the pains had just left her). strands of her black hair lay round
head sadly, pointing them out to the austrian general with an expression
headquarters was still under the spell of the day’s council, at which
headquarters in the morning and had started the whole movement that
headquarters. but on the afternoon of that day, this activity reached
headquarters, and having ascended a dark staircase, they entered a small
head, pulled it off, and showed the blood congealed on his hair.
headlong to the horse. “walk him up and down, my dear fellow,” he
headlong speed with no time to consider what this movement might lead
headlong after anna mikháylovna and, dashing at her, flung herself on
head, laughing with an officer who had sat down beside him. a third was
head in perplexity—perhaps because the banner really interested him,
he added that prince vasíli was also there. when tíkhon came to her
he added: “i need good officers myself, need them myself!”
he added: “but beware, dear brother, that these gloves do not deck
he added as if speaking to himself.
head cook, about asparagus, fresh cucumbers, strawberries, veal, and
head, but the instant he turned to prince andrew the firm, intelligent
head. as he rode up to the camp he thought how he would impress borís
head and lips indicating very little hope for the patient.
head and at the little arms and legs which showed under the blanket. he
head and an army of fifteen thousand men has been ordered to blow up
head.
having turned with words of comfort to her companion, realized that
having thanked anna pávlovna for her charming soiree, the guests began
having stuck an amber mouthpiece far into his mouth, was inhaling the
having something to eat. they hastily turned round to him asking if he
having said this she went up to the doctor.
having said this, napoleon rode on to meet marshal lannes, who, hat in
having said this laughed. everyone turned toward him.
having ridden round the whole line from right flank to left, prince
having ridden beyond the village, continually meeting and overtaking
having ridden ahead, had pulled up his horse near the bridge, with a
having rested after yesterday’s march, were sitting, clean and neatly
having read thus far, princess mary sighed and glanced into the mirror
having reached the left flank, instead of going to the front where the
having passed uvárov’s cavalry he clearly heard the sound of cannon
having passed the guards and traversed an empty space, rostóv, to avoid
having mounted drew himself up very straight and tall and rode to the
having lost a single man. the second squadron that had been in the front
having lifted her head and let her arms droop lifelessly, as ballet
having left that soldier who was evidently drunk, rostóv stopped the
having led him about ten paces, willarski stopped.
having jerked out these last words as soldiers do and waved his arms
having glanced through the dispatch he laid it on the table and looked
having given them to the rosy natásha, who beamed with the pleasure
having given several more orders, he was about to go to his “little
having given orders to his company, sent a soldier to find a dressing
having galloped safely through the french, he reached a field behind
having entered the courtyard of a large house where the lodge had its
having disentangled his leg, he rose. “where, on which side, was now
having descended the hill at a trot, he no longer saw either our own or
having convinced himself that he was asleep, took up a paper and in
having cleared the way denísov stopped at the end of the bridge.
having by a great effort got away to the left from that flood of men,
having become entangled in the saddle. where our men were, and where the
“have you told them to bring the horse?” asked telyánin, getting up
“have you never thought of marrying your prodigal son anatole?” she
“have you?” he said. “well, how did it go?”
“have you a complaint to make?” kutúzov asked with a slight frown.
   have we not bagratión?
have virtuous aims,” said pierre, feeling ashamed of the inadequacy
have two footmen behind her carriage, and very big ones. that was her
have to prove to them what he had not merely convinced himself of, but
have to go in and ask the princesses; and from there go on to the
have to call in the french, so that birds of a feather may fight
have the courier horses. it was plain that he was lying and only wanted
have the carriage to drive to town:
have stayed longer.”
have something to tell you. here, here!” and she led him into the
have something to eat.”
“have some brought from the reserve,” said napoleon, and having gone
have seen how he said it! i know he did not mean to say it, but it came
have said. and he was still more angry at having omitted to say it. he
have received very little, prince vasíli nothing, and it is monsieur
have received another letter about the preussisch-eylau battle
have of hope and strength merely weighs you down and torments you with
have obliged me to give this refusal.”
have nothing to complain of.”
have, my dear! i tasted it. the thousand rubles i paid for tarás were
have looked at it. take it. well, now go. go.”
have liked to sympathize with what pierre was saying, but could not.
have killed so many that there’d have been a heap of them.”
have just this moment received by special messenger very joyful
have it, young man, i’m going.”
have heard the sobs. it seems as though mankind has forgotten the
have gone through,” and she sympathetically turned up her eyes.
have frightened you—sit down and tell me all the news.”
have done your best to increase his mental sufferings.”
have done the same!...” thought princess mary.
have done for us.”
have dared to say so, knew it and blushed scarlet every time dólokhov
have certainly acquired a taste for war, and it is just as well for me;
have been difficult to stop that crowd, it was even impossible not to
have been as good as weyrother’s, but for the disadvantage that
have a room of your own,” and she took the inkstand from nicholas.
have always, thank god, been my children’s friend and had their full
hast thou denied?” he suddenly asked with exulting austerity and
has to be cunning and cruel.”
“has the snow been shoveled back?”
haste, trying to escape notice, closed the door, and began to read the
hastening her steps. “you young ladies should not know anything about
has so many relatives in moscow! so you are borís? of course. well, now
has retained in full force.”
has received a letter and is expecting a visit from prince vasíli. in
has proposed to sónya!”
“has prince vasíli aged much?” asked the countess. “i have not
has picked up an ax: “we are used to it, but you, sir, will blister
“hasn’t been in since the evening. must have been losing,”
has married his first cousin. and we are only second cousins, you know.
has his stand, and there’s zakhár himself and still the same horse!
“has he taken his medicine?”
has come down to us from the remotest ages, even from the first man—a
has blundered looks at an examiner.
has beaten the germans. they beat no one—except one another. he made
“has anything happened?” she asked. “i am so terrified.”
“has anything come from andrew?” she asked.
harnessed and packed the wagons and tied on the loads. the adjutants and
“hardly,” said bagratión. “i saw them this evening on that
hardly had prince andrew started than he stopped him.
hardly had borís gone than sónya, flushed, in tears, and muttering
hardly able to restrain her tears and maintain the artificial smile
hard.... for ages, from our forefather adam to our own day, we labor to
harder from behind.
happy world of his own. she fancied a child, her own—such as she had
happy smile, ambling lightly up to the count’s niece. “i have come,
happy and smiling. véra was playing chess with shinshín in the drawing
happiness. the old princess sighed sadly as she offered some wine to the
happiness possible, and that is just what you want to deprive him of.
happiness or peace of mind. can anything in the world make her or me
happiness), feeling the eager bustle around him, and hearing the fitful
happiness and of children, but her strongest, most deeply hidden longing
happiest, merriest times for him and the whole family. nicholas brought
happen to them when they were free, but he insisted, though reluctantly,
happen!” she said, looking at herself in the glass. “how shall i
happening in front of him. nesvítski with an angry face, red and unlike
happened to you in moscow was a misfortune.”—“i regret it very
happened to touch. mademoiselle bourienne stood near them pressing her
happened, he was said to be insanely jealous and subject like his
    * “hang these russians!”
hanging his head, meekly followed her.
hanging down (she had handed her reticule to the countess), and only her
hanged,” said prince andrew with a smile. “so i am serving because
handwriting. on receiving it, he ran on tiptoe to his study in alarm and
hand with it and knew he must not do so. having advanced six paces and
hand, was clearing manure from the cowhouse, looked out, and his face
hand to his ear toward weyrother, with the air of a man absorbed in
hand to her heart, with a beatific smile and obviously equally ready to
hand them to the emperor after my death. now here is a lombard bond
hand that was free, and turning sideways felt the pulse and reflected
hands which show the time, so the result of all the complicated human
hands were symmetrically placed on the green silk quilt, the palms
hands. then, sighing, he added: “my son’s fate is in your hands.
hands that are unclean.” while the grand master said these last words
handsome young officer entering his room. pierre paused. he had left
handsome open face of the man who might perhaps be her husband absorbed
handsome, happy young face, he experienced a feeling of tenderness
handsome and a terrible scapegrace. that is all i have been able to find
hands, looked attentively into prince vasíli’s eyes evidently
hands. “just fancy, he didn’t let me win a single cahd, not one
hands high, shied, throwing back its ears; but the pockmarked guardsman
hand she went up to her husband and kissed him on the forehead.
hands, he looked more closely at the ring, with its skull—a masonic
hands asking for their blessing, and that he kissed véra, natásha, and
hands and occasionally ran his eyes over the score against him. he had
hands.”
hands....”
hands.
hand, rode up smiling to the emperor to congratulate him on the victory.
handleless cup before a table on which tea and a cold supper were laid
hand, lay prince andrew bolkónski bleeding profusely and unconsciously
handkerchief to his wounded cheek and pointing to the fleeing soldiers.
handkerchiefs to their eyes, and just in front of them their eldest
handkerchief and rushed from the room.
handkerchief, and pipe.
hand in passing and draw it downwards, or absent-mindedly hold out his
hand. “how did you get here?” said he, turning to zherkóv.
hand he held carefully back, because he wished to support his right
hand he drew bagratión toward him, and with his right, on which he wore
handful of scoundrels. it will soon be over, it can’t be that, it
handed him, smiled at dólokhov’s words, and with a sinking heart,
hand. and there,” he pointed to a sutler’s tent, “they crowd in
hand and said, “come.” pierre went with her to the bed on which the
halted, the austrian argued that not he, but the higher command, was to
halted. prince andrew was behind, among the immense number forming the
hall, where denísov was sitting on the same chair by the clavichord
“hallo, gwíska—my pipe!” came vasíli denísov’s husky voice.
hall all sat waiting, silently and alert. in the outlying serfs’
half whisper, “everyone knows count cyril’s reputation.... he has
halfway through supper prince andrew leaned his elbows on the table and,
halfway. fine orders!” was being repeated on different sides.
half-closed eyes he looked at rostóv, bowed slightly and wearily, and
half-closed eyes gave still more persuasiveness to his words. the staff
half an hour later, the rhetor returned to inform the seeker of the
ha!” laughed prince bolkónski, and anatole laughed still louder.
hairs painfully in the knot. then he drew his face down, kissed him, and
hair above his broad forehead which reminded one of a lion, and the deep
ha, ha, ha! mary!”
had uttered them.
“had there been no bagratión, it would have been necessary to
had then said.
had the ear of the company.
had the air of one who has suddenly lost faith in the whole human race.
had the air of a man happily performing one of the most solemn duties of
had sunk, her lip was drawn up, and her eyes drawn down.
had stopped beside the dead men, ran to catch up his line and, falling
had slept badly that night, those around him reported. the cause of this
had sent in good time to moscow for a doctor and were expecting him at
had seemed as extraordinary to her as if there had never existed the
had ridden up to him in a violent passion, shouting: “arnauts!”
had revealed to him. a week after his arrival, the young polish count,
had read thus far, he crumpled the letter up and threw it away. it was
had read, and listened to what was passing in the nursery. suddenly he
had reached braunau at the same time, was in splendid condition. there
had produced a good epigram, a fresh one that would be repeated. his
had prevailed. she drew her brother’s attention to the maid who was
had played a little air with variations on the harp, she joined the
had persisted in his request to kutúzov, arrived at grunth and reported
had perished by his own magnanimity, and that there were particular
had on the spásski hill which might have been serious for her in her
had only met once before for a short time at his wedding, were in
“hadn’t i better ride over, your excellency?” asked nesvítski.
had not yet entered either the military or civil service, as he had only
had not yet come home when rostóv rode back early in the morning from
had not yet begun. not wishing to agree to dolgorúkov’s demand to
had not worn for a long time, he went into bilíbin’s study fresh,
had not told all and that there was something in his feelings for the
had not only held the field but had repulsed the french. though the
had not left prince vasíli’s and felt with terror that in people’s
had not known it i should not have addressed you. your view of life is a
had no time. he was afraid of falling behind the hussars, so much afraid
had not finished saying what was necessary, thudded into the ground near
had not exasperated the vicomte, and had convinced herself that it was
had not been time to move. the emperor, surrounded by his suite
had no connection with the matter in hand. his haggard face was yellow.
had never been to blame, might be held responsible at headquarters
had left paris and how he had liked that city. anatole answered the
had left her kindly and tear-worn face and it now expressed only anxiety
had killed five frenchmen, a third had loaded five cannon singlehanded.
had instantly noticed her brother’s condition. but, though she noticed
had he repented of his unbelief? was he now there? there in the realms
had heard that a rumor of his duel had reached the emperor and that it
had happened. what had happened? nothing. he had merely understood that
had happened to him, but could not do so. such a storm of feelings,
had happened during that half-hour to the troops entrusted to him, and
had had to retreat and had made their withdrawal in perfect order. the
had had in anna pávlovna’s drawing room. pierre removed his feet from
had grown so dark that one could not distinguish the uniforms ten paces
had foreseen. prince andrew, out of breath with his rapid ride, spoke
had followed him like an eagle, three steps at a time. having received
had followed, and only the heavens promised peace. toward morning
had fixed on that number because forty-three was the sum of his and
had first seen the enemy and fired the first shot, and that the corner
had first learned to say “pear” and then “granny,” that this son
had fallen the previous day—the day of the battle. reviewing his
had evidently been drinking.
had entered. the most solemn mystery in the world continued its course.
had entered and left the town with their bands playing, and by the grand
had endured to gain her end.
had driven the old prince to town returned bringing papers and letters
had done in petersburg at anna schérer’s reception.
had crossed that line and not only was there nothing terrible, but
had conquered, settled down in an armchair, inviting prince vasíli to
had come into pierre’s room after the funeral. with drooping eyes
had come from the left flank where their regiment was stationed, with
had changed greatly during that period. in the expression of his face,
had broken up the french troops.
had been struck on the teeth, or what the ham had to do with it.
had been spilled on the carpet. they were met by a deacon with a censer
had been sitting with the old aunt rose hurriedly and overtook prince
had been repulsed, employing this military term to describe what had
had been put in position?”
had been playing cards with the majority of the more distinguished and
had been killed or not and whether the cannon had been captured or
had been killed at the beginning of the engagement and within an hour
had been insulted through his daughter. the insult was the more pointed
had been increased by a half. and so pierre was delighted with his visit
had been got ready for him, glancing now and then at the newcomer, who,
had been doing, as though it were all an old-time story, and he listened
had been decided to advance immediately and give battle to bonaparte.
had been carried out and in what state were the serfs whom god had
had been added to mademoiselle bourienne’s toilet which rendered her
had become more intimate when prince andrew was in vienna with kutúzov.
had a splendid march. you know, of course, that his imperial highness
had apparently been running), “and i did so wish to have another talk
had any news. on their familiar faces he read agitation and alarm.
had always seemed to him that he really was very kind and intelligent.
had always imagined battles to himself), nor could he help to fire the
had also convinced the sovereign emperors of.
had accumulated at the sight of all that was being done in the army.
habitual to him. his face took on the stupid artificial smile (which
habitual, offering his puffy cheek, but bagratión kissed him on the
habit of walking, had been swept: the marks of the broom were still
habit of ridiculing the masonic beliefs—“i am afraid i am very far
gut morgen!” * he said winking with a merry smile, evidently pleased
guns smashed, and no supports at all.”
guns on the hillock.
guns. on the contrary, the energetic action of that battery led the
gunner with his shako knocked awry, pulling one end of a mop while
gun carriage. a cossack who accompanied him had handed him a knapsack
gun, a horse), from the sight of all these things a fantastic world of
guidance. the universal experience of ages, showing that children do
guests were and exchanging glances with natásha, who was sitting
guests were all conversing with one another. “the razumóvskis... it
guests returned to the drawing room and to the count’s study.
guests. natásha, who sat opposite, was looking at borís as girls of
guests joined in. everyone laughed, not at márya dmítrievna’s answer
guest. “poor girl, she’s devilish ugly!” thought anatole.
guest of honor and hero of the austrian campaign, prince bagratión, to
guess what he wanted; she pointed first to pierre, then to some drink,
guessing rostóv’s thought.
guards with the rank of cornet. he received, however, no appointment
guards, wearing a cocked hat with its peaks front and back, with his
guards, that they not only did not wish to, but simply could not, be
guards. prince andrew came up to him and took his hand.
guards passed rostóv before he heard them shout, “hurrah!” and
guards. here is my hand on it. are you satisfied?”
guards charged, followed the line of reserves, going far round the place
guards?” asked napoleon.
guard and line regiments, russian and austrian. among them were grooms
guard.
grown-up young people: véra beside berg, and pierre beside borís; and
grown furious, now at borís, now at bolkónski. “yes, many stories!
growing louder and more frequent. evidently our guns had begun to reply.
growing impatient, and stamped her foot, ready to cry at his not coming
growing excited. “what about your son, your sister, and your
growing ever stronger and fuller and merging into a deafening roar.
grow imperceptibly from the cradle to manhood, did not exist for the
group where the vicomte was still talking, and again pretended to
group of men with yellow shakos, dark-green jackets braided with cord,
ground ten paces apart to mark the barrier. it was thawing and misty; at
ground like cliffs and slopes. anywhere, on any side, one might
ground, eager to rejoin its fellows, he watched his squadron draw
ground, artillery and troops in blue uniform were seen. these were the
groans, which seemed to melt into one with the darkness of the night.
groaning aloud and swinging his arm which had just been hurt, while
grimace. “i have long wanted to ask you, andrew, why you have changed
grieving at the misfortunes of our common cause, or we are merely
grieved him and yet he was pleased.
grew weary waiting to be relieved. prince andrew halted to have a look
grew still louder and merged into a general roar that only an army
grew still kinder. the younger sisters also became affectionate to him,
greeting was riding quickly. when the soldiers of the regiment in front
greediness that he wanted it, but simply from a conscientious desire for
great sin. how can one judge father? but even if one might, what feeling
greatness, the unimportance of life which no one could understand, and
greatness of soul?” said the little princess, smiling and drawing her
greatness....”
great many officers like him were always coming there and that everybody
great man! let us drink to his health and to the certain defeat of the
great haste and in the greatest disorder. the road was so obstructed
great favor to ask of you.”
greater zeal than his duty as a commander. thanks to the strictness and
greater reasons.”
greater part of the enemy’s opened out from this battery. just facing
great deal. of the two soups he chose turtle with savory patties and
great deal from the deceased,” said prince vasíli to him, handing him
great and talking eagerly. as soon as they saw pierre and his companion
great; all he could hear was: “ahahah!” and “rrrr!”
gray overcoats, wounds, the smoke of gunpowder, the sounds of firing,
grayish color.
gray everyday dress. now please, do it for my sake. katie,” she said
gravity!”
grave, moment i did not tell you the whole truth. i think there is no
grateful look, but was still expectant and looking for someone. the old
grateful for the benefits conferred on them. everywhere were receptions,
grapeshot.”
grant rewards, and he was himself often surprised at the rapidity of his
grant.” nor did he say to himself: “pierre is a rich man, i must
“‘grant leave to retire to his country seat to an old man who is
granted.
grand! look at the smoke, the smoke!” exclaimed the artillerymen,
grandfather, wore it in all his wars.” (she still did not take out
grandfather called him). the baby prince nicholas lived with his wet
grandee of catherine’s time who now lay dying in moscow. the young man
“gracious heavens! the young count!” he cried, recognizing his
graceful pose under a portrait of catherine, leaning his elbow on a
graceful and muscular arms and neck. by the grace of her movements,
grabern. on the left our troops were close to a copse, in which smoked
gown, he went to the couch on which he slept.
government officials to his table, had unexpectedly selected michael
got up and said something to the ladies. anna mikháylovna stepped
“gott, wie naiv!” * said he angrily, after he had gone a few steps.
go to him himself, and tell him what ought to be done in a tone of
“go, tit, thresh a bit!” said the wag.
“go, tit! thresh a bit!”
got into bed, all kept awake a long time that night.
go through your performance.”
go there anyhow and i have already spoken to him about you. we shall
“go!” the quivering voice repeated. and prince vasíli had to go
go? that way is nearer.”
got back to their horses. two were misdirected and the shot went too
goot to come to ze front and see dat zis position iss no goot? i don’t
“go on, you must drink it all,” said anatole, giving pierre the last
“go on, go on!” said the major.
“go on! go on! give it them!” he mentally exclaimed at these sounds,
good thing really.”
good stories about her, while none the less all without exception
“good!” said the rhetor quickly, apparently satisfied with
good part.
good old days. denísov, flushed after the mazurka and mopping himself
“good night, lise,” said he, rising and courteously kissing her hand
good news, though schmidt’s death is a heavy price to pay for the
good news? there has been an encounter with mortier? a victory? it was
“good news!... go on!” he shouted to the driver, and they galloped
goodness, to give us as sovereign! to say nothing of my brothers, this
good-natured, sincere, and animated levity. “but you see... another
good luck.”
good horse, bedouin, and sitting as though falling backwards in the
“good health...”
     * “good god, what simplicity!”
good gifts? are you content with yourself and with your life?”
“good-by, my dear,” said she to the countess who saw her to the
“good-by, my dear fellow,” said túshin. “dear soul! good-by, my
good-by!”
“good-by.”
good as to look at the map and listen.” langeron lifted his eyes with
good and noble in you will be lost. it will all be wasted on trifles.
“gone to bed,” replied the voice of demyán the house steward, who
“gone to bed?” asked the prince.
“gone? that’s all right!” said he; and looking angrily at the
gone, pierre did not go to bed or order horses but paced up and down
gone out of the conservatory she followed and called borís to her.
“go, my dear fellow, and see whether the third division has passed the
golítsyn and he has refused. be the kindhearted man you always were,”
golden.”) he cast happy, sidelong glances at his son from under his
gold-embroidered velvet bag. her pretty little upper lip, on which a
go into that. but consider the position in which you are placing her and
going toward the door without raising his eyes. denísov paused, thought
going to the cottage he occupied with denísov.
going. the emperor was wounded, the battle lost. it was impossible to
going straight on through the conservatory, neither seeing nor hearing
going on in front. whether all the enemy forces were, as we supposed,
going on, but strain his attention as he would he could not understand
“going?” and he went on writing.
“go in, annette, or you will catch cold,” said the little princess,
“go!” he repeated, amazed at himself and glad to see the look of
“go! go! killed in battle, where the best of russian men and
goes up to auersperg and says: ‘prince, you are being deceived, here
god, without whose care not a hair of man’s head can fall?
god,” said pierre, regretfully and with an effort, feeling it
god,” pierre went round the table and saw a large open box filled
“god is merciful, doctors are never needed,” she said.
“god is merciful, birdie.”
“god is merciful....”
“god has nothing to do with it! well, go on,” he continued,
     * god has given it to me, let him who touches it beware!
godfather,” she added, as if she attached no importance at all to the
“go, dear,” said princess mary.
“god be with you, general!” said the emperor.
god be with him,” thought he, relishing his own goodness of heart,
“god be thanked that you are in time,” said she to one of the
god!” and without noticing that he was singing, to strengthen the si
go and tell lise.”
“go and choose denísov. he is a real dancer, a wonder!” he said.
“go and apologize, your excellency. yes, go!”
“go across to our hosts: they invited you,” added borís.
go.
go.
glorious task for which he was chosen. i shall await your most gracious
gloomy gravity and glancing round at his comrades, “there is an order
gloom, but a dark sea swelling and gradually subsiding after a storm.
glittering teeth and sparkling eyes. she told of an accident they had
glide across that lofty infinite sky! how was it i did not see that
gleamed.
glass, smiled, and walked toward the other door. natásha was about to
glass. she went on reading:
glass, “or i won’t let you go!”
glass of vodka and the dinner; and the staff officer with the signet
glass. letting her arms fall helplessly, she sat with downcast eyes and
glass.
glancing up at him from under her brows, smiling, and almost crying from
glancing into the drawing room, where he saw véra and his mother with
glancing for support at an officer of the suite who turned away
glancing at prince vasíli and at her father with her beautiful eyes.
glances without coloring, but even the old countess and natásha blushed
glanced up at her through tears of laughter, and again hid her face.
glanced at berg with a smile.
glanced askance at her husband’s face, and her own assumed the timid,
glanced angrily at berg, then, meeting his eyes, hid his face behind the
glance became more animated as his conclusions became more hopeless.
glance at all those in the room and noticing the count’s confessor
glad, very glad indeed, that my brother has distinguished himself so.
“glad to do our best, your ex’len-lency!” came a confused shout
“glad to do our best!” shouted the soldiers.
giving the messenger a significant look.
giving him full liberty to remain with him during the battle or to join
giving him a mild expression, rode up to bagratión and welcomed him as
gives the singles and snatches the doubles!”
given to raise recruits, ten men in every thousand for the regular army,
given to blow it up. otherwise we should long ago have been in the
given receptions) now hardly let a day go by without having an evening
give no opinion on such an important government order, and berg laughed
given him by the commander in chief and his fellow officers, prince
“give me time to collect my wits, father,” said he, with a smile
“give me that letter,” said kutúzov turning to prince andrew.
give me satisfaction...”
“give me a biscuit, you devil!”
“give him a seat,” said túshin. “lay a cloak for him to sit on,
gist of the matter lay in that.
girl, you and your sisters are not heiresses! if you don’t believe me,
girl would be decided that evening. the visitors were seated at supper.
girls’ voices came from the adjoining room. the door was opened a
girls and avoiding their eyes.
girlish adoration that her smile could not for a single instant impose
girl,” he sometimes said to himself “she never makes a mistake,
gilt frame, new to him, containing the genealogical tree of the princes
giddy even on a staircase,” exclaimed several voices.
“get well soon, lads!” he continued, turning to the soldiers.
getting up and speaking in a muffled and guttural voice.
get there and fire the bridge or will the french get within grapeshot
get ready to dance in the large hall, and the sound of the feet and the
“get onto the ice, over the ice! go on! turn! don’t you hear? go
get married. what about you? that’s what i want to know.”
“get in,” said kutúzov, and noticing that bolkónski still delayed,
gesture. anna pávlovna meditated.
germans’ muddling! what stupid devils!”
germans, and everyone was convinced that a dangerous muddle had been
germans.
german—i congratulate him! i can’t make out what the commander at
german accent, “for the reasson zat ze emperor knows zat. he
“gently, gently! can’t you do it more gently?” said the emperor
gentleness and affection. he could not refuse the post, or rather the
“gentlemen, who wishes to bet with me? i’ll do the same thing!”
“gentlemen, the dispositions for tomorrow—or rather for today, for
‘gentlemen,’ says one of them, ‘you know the thabor bridge is
“gentlemen,” said dólokhov after he had dealt for some time.
gentlemen of the diplomatic corps. with prince hippolyte kurágin,
gentlemen, messieurs les maréchaux, * murat, lannes, and belliard,
gentlemen, it is already time for me to go,” replied prince andrew
“gentlemen, i thank you all; all arms have behaved heroically:
“gentlemen, i’ll do anything. no one shall hear a word from me,”
gentlemen changed his position on seeing borís. the one who was writing
gentleman,” said the postmaster, entering the room followed by another
gentleman of the bedchamber, which at that time conferred the status of
gentleman—evidently not sharing borís’ conception of the advantages
gentle look of her large luminous eyes, very beautiful at that moment,
gentle childlike smile, and hélène smiled too.
genoa and lucca laying their petitions before monsieur buonaparte, and
general who, watch in hand, was saying it was time they started as all
general who signed that capitulation had no right to do so, and that no
general who had succeeded schmidt. in the passage little kozlóvski was
general who had served blamelessly for twenty-two years, flushed by a
general were talking in low voices and kutúzov smiled slightly as
generals were saying.
general’s three-cornered hat, and held it, pulling at the plume,
generals in the crowded hut, feeling embarrassed as he always was by the
generals in full parade uniforms, with their thin or thick waists drawn
general schmidt, who was killed in the action. his horse had been
generals. but one could not tell from that significant look whether he
generals and statesmen of the day. the old prince seemed convinced not
generals.
general roar.
general—of whom austria has so many—and to lay down all this heavy
general movement; that something was constantly expected of him, that if
generally the stronger! i know very well that count nicholas is too
generally, prince andrew had, as he had had in petersburg society, two
generally happens to the narrators of cavalry attacks had not happened
generally do describe it, that is, as they would like it to have been,
“general kutúzov,” said bolkónski, speaking french and stressing
general, in russian, speaking with the french intonation he affected
“general, i must obey orders, but i am not bound to endure...”
general grumbled at his wife when she asked how his leg was. “oh, the
general expanded his chest and rode, frowning, beside him to the
general engagement in which he was taking part, more than that, he was
general conversation.
general conclusion which he had arrived at from his interview with
general commotion. some eight or nine young men were crowding anxiously
‘general bonaparte.’”
general attention, and anna pávlovna felt that the novelty she had
general.”
general!”
genealogical tree, shook his head, laughing as a man laughs who looks at
gaze drooped his eyes sadly and again took to twirling his snuffbox.
gazed at his delicate fingers which rapidly twirled by its corners
gazed at bolkónski silently with wide-open eyes.
gavríl to pay a sleigh driver, his kissing sónya on the sly—he now
gave zest to his pleasures. he spent the greater part of his time away
gave us time to retreat. the retirement of the center to the other side
gave no answer, she left the room.
gave his hand to the plague-stricken; but ... but there are other acts
“gave him leave? leave? that’s just like you young men,” said the
gave her the answer in her own heart. “desire nothing for thyself,
gathered round nicholas in the sitting room.
gasping voice. “where are we? in moscow, i know. i don’t matter,
galloping toward him. they were our uhlans who with disordered
galloped up to kutúzov and asked in the emperor’s name had the fourth
galloped on to the village where he was told that the commander in chief
gallantry lit up his face and as soon as the last figure of the
galicia he had managed to deal with the grand duke when the latter
gained a step on his old comrades of the cadet corps; how in wartime
gaily, with a wide swing of his arm.
gaily.
gaiety with which zherkóv spoke, and to the intentional coldness of
further back till his curly hair touched his shirt collar, and the hand
furlough after christmas to return with him to their regiment. his
furies and rages at everyone and everything, seizes the letters, opens
full speed. rostóv, fearing to be crushed or swept into the attack on
fulfill thy will?” and scarcely had she put that question than god
fulfill the one which enjoined every mason to set an example of moral
fugitives returned, the battalions re-formed, and the french who had
    * frühstück: breakfast.
frowning and taking his daughter’s hand; he did not kiss her, but only
frowning and silent.
frowning.
fro with dignity, offered surmises about the weather, or touched on
front. pierre stood smiling but silent. one man, older than the others
front of us.
front of the ranks. suddenly one shot after another rang out from the
front of the infantry, who had to wait.
front line, as if their differences would be settled there amongst the
front and men four abreast, spread across the bridge and began to emerge
front and back. her bust, which had always seemed like marble to pierre,
front.
from which they had dashed out so impetuously, the conversation had
from which the shouting came. he felt both frightened and pleased to be
from which spectacles have just been removed, had also a frightened and
from which occasional puffs were blown by an invisible smoker.
“from where to where, your majesty?”
“from what i have heard,” said pierre, blushing and breaking into
from weeping and sat down beside dr. lorrain, who was sitting in a
from vienna to znaim was shorter and better than the road for the
from vienna kutúzov wrote to his old comrade, prince andrew’s father.
from various people and retelling the town gossip.
from understanding—how am i to put it?—i am afraid my way of looking
from this distressful life, and leads it to its place of recompense and
from the wood, mustered the men who were woodcutting, and, allowing the
from the way the regimental commander saluted the commander in chief and
from the theater, had had supper and were grouped round the clavichord.
from the shelf the first book that came to his hand (it was caesar’s
from the right flank, beside which the carriage passed the company,
from the revolution leaving the people to anarchy, and napoleon alone
from the ranks. a morose soldier marching on the left turned his eyes on
from the masses around them, the smoke and the increasing fog, to see
from the hints contained in his letter and given by the little princess,
from the hill. there was no one now between the squadron and the enemy
from the guards just before this campaign. he behaved very well in the
from the folds of her frock.
from the field of battle with the pale and terrified ober-hofmarschal
from the drawing room.
from the doctor to pierre. to him, in a particularly respectful and
from the direction of olmütz in front of them, a group was seen
“from the direction, it must be the enemy,” repeated rostóv.
from the deafening sounds of his own guns around him, the whistle and
from the crumpled heap under the table would save him, now counted the
from the bottom of the slope, where the parleys had taken place, came
from the army to sergéy kuzmích, in which the emperor said that he was
from that distorted mouth issued an indistinct, hoarse sound. anna
from that day the eldest princess quite changed toward pierre and began
from sitting on the outer sill was being forced out by two footmen, who
from prince andrew to the staff officer.
from pétenka—he took part in it—and it’s all true. when
from passing, “won’t this be too much for poor uncle at a moment
from my heart as to an old acquaintance.”
from másha, the lady’s maid, the necessary report of how handsome the
from laughing.
from la grippe; grippe being then a new word in st. petersburg, used
from home, at dinners, parties, and balls.
from hollabrünn) received murat’s dispatch with the proposal of a
from his son.
from his horse in a pool of blood. nobody gave him a look or thought of
from his cheek. prince andrew forced his way to him.
from him, though she knew that already, and remarked that they might
from him. “there, you see!” and he drew attention to the bullets
from him. “he used to have a predilection for bacchus.”
from him, and rostóv felt as in a dream that he continued to be carried
“from héloïse?” asked the prince with a cold smile that showed his
from headquarters behind the village to the left, and thither rostóv
“from general field marshal kutúzov?” he asked. “i hope it is
from early morning the smart clean troops were on the move, forming up
from early morning strenuous activities and efforts had begun and by ten
“from dürrenstein to krems.”
from denísov, rode past too, at the rear of his squadron—that is,
from behind still came the shouts: “onto the ice, why do you stop? go
from behind.
from all sides were heard the footsteps and talk of the infantry, who
from all sides reports reach me,” etc.
“‘from all my riding,’ he writes to the emperor, ‘i have got a
from actions which would torment him afterwards.”
frock and hair.
frigid politeness.
fright were amused by pierre’s lisp and the new words they had not
frightened here?” and the artilleryman understood him.
friend, that i look on marriage as a divine institution to which we must
friend’s look was now still more clearly expressed in the smile
“friendship laughs at distance,” began prince vasíli in his usual
friendship at all; i simply feel that the army is my vocation.”
friendship.”
friend’s hand.
friends had pledged themselves in an indissoluble alliance to uphold
friendly words to officers he had known in the turkish war, sometimes
friend, but nicholas avoided him. with that peculiar feeling of youth,
friend bolkónski, whom he had not seen for two years.
friend a model of perfection because prince andrew possessed in the
friend.”
friend...”
“fr... fr...” snorted prince bolkónski. “the prince is making a
freshness, an unconsciousness of her own powers, and an as yet untrained
fresh anecdotes were heard of individual examples of heroism shown by
fresh and pretty face yet more attractive.
frenchwoman very readily and, looking at her with a smile, talked to her
frenchwoman blushed and went away without a word. when he reached his
french were putting out the fire which the wind was spreading, and thus
french, turning to a general, “my husband is deserting me? he is going
french troops who are being raised in france will join us, and the peace
french to suppose that here—in the center—the main russian forces
french) to prince vasíli. “it’s not as at annette’s * receptions
french to pass him, had made a bayonet charge with two battalions and
french though he spoke it badly, offered to conduct prince andrew.
french, there would be great hope of saving the army; to let the
french, smoke appeared all along their uneven ranks, and musket shots
french since suvórov met them. he feared that bonaparte’s genius
french pronunciation which she could allow herself when conversing with
frenchmen, and though but a moment before he had been galloping to get
frenchman remembers his bayonet and stabs him....”
frenchman, holding him down by the sleeve in a friendly way to prevent
frenchman also stopped and took aim. rostóv closed his eyes and stooped
french, he did not know. there was no one near.
french forestall him at znaim meant the exposure of his whole army to a
french families. he is one of the genuine émigrés, the good ones. and
french column, with its officers leading, appeared from below the hill.
french colonel who had been taken prisoner by our dragoons. our officers
french. but this adjutant returned half an hour later with the news that
french battalion rushes to the bridgehead, spikes the guns, and the
french. a group of cossack scouts retired down the hill at a trot. all
french!”
free, so lighthearted! and i did not realize how happy i was! when did
freemasonry presented itself to him.
free.’ isn’t that lovely and noble! yes, very noble? isn’t it?”
freedom i could understand it and should be the first to enter the army;
freedom and told her that one way or another he would never cease to
freckled gunner in a merry voice, standing to attention.
frantically, had such an effect that they managed to squeeze through
frankly, i don’t want to. i am speaking of the staff in general.”
francis received him standing in the middle of the room. before the
français,” said dolgorúkov, with grave satisfaction. “good,
fragmentary sentences tried to explain about a doll which she produced
“fo’ward, with god, lads!” rang out denísov’s voice. “at a
four times—till i get what i want. i don’t mind what they think of
four thousand strong, to the right across the hills from the krems-znaim
found the prussian army. borís, speaking with deliberation, told them
found them to be so tiresome that it wearied him to look at or listen to
found the count with it in his hand, sobbing and laughing at the same
found out, nothing discovered,” pierre again said to himself. “all
found expression in calling her maid “my dear” and speaking to her
found a kind of tantalizing satisfaction.
found.”
for your sake.”
for your obstinacy,” said kírsten.
for your neighbor? have you ever thought of your tens of thousands
for wine.
“for what have you come hither?” asked the newcomer, turning in
forward with unnatural speed but yet stayed on the same spot. from
“forward, with god!” said bagratión, in a resolute, sonorous voice,
forward toward the old man with a forced and timid smile.
forward. of bolkónski, nothing was said, and only those who knew him
“forward, lads!” he shouted in a voice piercing as a child’s.
forward. “company commanders!” he shouted in a voice accustomed to
forward beside schmidt with the bullets merrily whistling all around,
forward and, stooping over the dying man, beckoned to lorrain from
forward, and experienced great happiness.
for us. the field marshal looks on and waits for letters addressed
     * “forty thousand men massacred and the army of our allies
forty paces’ distance nothing could be seen. for three minutes all had
for two days after that rostóv did not see dólokhov at his own or at
fortune. suddenly he heard a familiar voice repeating something to him a
for trees and gullies for men and continually discovering his mistakes.
“for tomorrow!” said he, quickly finding the page and making a
fortnight’s retreat, the russian troops had halted and after a fight
for three days, and not one of them knew or imagined what was in store
for this failure, the enemy placed ten guns to the right of the village
(for they were speaking french) at least with a russian who would, he
for the two approaching battalions. while he was speaking, the curtain
for the tenth time, molière’s words: “mais que diable allait-il
for the society of ladies, began to come often to the house, and the
for these simple, kindly people.
for the next battle are planned by him alone. nominally he is only an
for themselves.
for the most part handsome fellows and, as is always the case in an
“for the last time i say to you—turn all your attention upon
for the hussars to retreat with the infantry. they were cut off from
for the good we have done them.’ father took her when she was homeless
for the future, pierre’s journeys and occupations, the war, and so
for the countess.”
for the attainment of that purpose.
for the aged? and is it not a palpable, unquestionable good if a
for that. yes, for that alone! i shall never tell anyone, but, oh god!
for some days in moscow and was staying as usual at his father’s
for russia, for the orthodox greek faith! all that is beautiful, but
for prince andrew.
for petersburg alone.
“for not dilly-dallying and not hanging to a woman’s apron strings.
for negligence or inefficiency so staggered him that, forgetting the
for my sake! did you know?”
for more than a week preparations were being made, rough drafts of
for more than anything else in the world, did not know how to approach
forming up within twice the range of a musket shot. the general in
forming a complete whole with her dress, but all the charm of her body
former pupil of his.
former position. a huge, broad-shouldered gunner, number one, holding
former position after the campaign, had returned to petersburg and come
formerly in anna pávlovna’s presence, pierre had always felt that
“for me? for me?... trying for me!...” said she.
formed up at intervals, and wheeled round other similar masses of
formed the picket line on either side, there were many curious onlookers
formed a definite idea of what an attack was and were expecting to hear
formed.
for life, but i don’t understand that, i forget quickly.”
for his reply, surrounded him, and led him to the drawing room. it was
for his part tried to pretend to the count that he considered these
for his life, but for the courage he needed and which he knew would not
for himself. he remembered his mother’s last letter. “what would she
for him, prince bagratión sat at dinner, talking with some commanding
for him, but again pressed on him so that they jammed his leg, and those
for him.
for her. when the little princess had grown accustomed to life at bald
forgot the sovereigns’ presence. “lads, it’s not the first village
forgot them. his head was burning, he felt himself bleeding to death,
forgotten. our duty, my dear, is to rectify his mistake, to ease his
“for god’s sake... i can’t walk. for god’s sake!”
for girls and boys.”
forgetting that she was dancing with a grown-up partner she bent her
forgetting that it was unbecoming for the girls to see men undressed,
forget. but, my dear, will you not give us a little hope of touching
forget all that.... she says: ‘i shall love him always, but let him be
for everything, the colonel moved forward and ordered the second
“forever?” said the little girl. “till death itself?”
“forever?” said prince andrew. “nothing’s forever.”
forestall him, threw off his fur coat and ran on tiptoe through the
foresight for every eventuality, every possibility even to the smallest
foreign cavalry with red epaulets, probably french. he could see nothing
forehead, wetting him with her tears. then after a pause she said:
forehead was moist. prince andrew touched the head with his hand; even
forehead, over which was beautiful light-brown hair smelling of pomade.
forehead. he went to the cot in confusion, sure that he would find it
forehead.
forefather adam to our own times, is that temple reared which is to be
force their way through them with bayonets.
force had already descended into the valley toward the ponds and lakes
for a seat.
for anything and i never will again, nor have i ever reminded you of my
for an instant, but there was no second report as he had expected. he
for an answer. his birth and position in society were not bad. “well,
for a moment he dozed, but in that short interval innumerable things
for a mere fancy?” said nicholas taking her hand.
for a long time pierre could not understand, but when he did, he jumped
for a long time he could not utter a word, so that the rhetor had to
for a long time, always in the same fog, descending and ascending hills,
“forage has not been supplied to the extent...”
for a few seconds collected his thoughts. then the russian ambassador
for about a minute.
for!”
foot, which he was then touching with his own under the clavichord.
foot to foot uncertain with which to start, then settled down, galloped
footsteps. pierre rose and said it was getting late. prince vasíli gave
footmen and cooks were getting the supper, count bezúkhov had a
footmen, and awaited each expected dish with some anxiety. everything
footing that all who knew them, including anatole himself, respected him
foot, and galloped on.
“fool... or dummy!” he muttered.
foolish as soon as he uttered them, while on the contrary hippolyte’s
food.
“folly... folly! death... lies...” he repeated, puckering his face.
follows the current of his own thoughts, “things will have gone too
follows that pierre will not be pierre but will become count bezúkhov,
follows:
following the princess, whom a footman was helping into the carriage.
following the mass movements and general orders, and constantly studying
following passage, in german, from the archduke ferdinand’s letter:
following budget:
follow, for this was clearly only a prelude.
followed was like the first movement of the main wheel of a large tower
followed singly. the footmen began moving about, chairs scraped, the
followed proved that the commander in chief at that moment was absorbed
followed him in, as if there were now no further need for permission to
followed by the owner of the manly voice, a dashing infantry officer who
followed by their suites. kutúzov, affecting the manners of an old
followed by a cossack.
followed anna mikháylovna out of the carriage, and only then began
fly upwards. the angel’s upper lip was slightly raised as though
fly! gracious me, they did rattle past! it’s time i knew the imperial
fluttering in that light. túshin had not returned, the doctor had not
fluttering above the fire and remembered a russian winter at his warm,
flung it down and began:
flung it away. tíkhon caught it and handed it to a footman. the little
flower tubs and hid there.
flower; natásha, half grown up and half child, was now childishly
flourishing his arm, called him to enter.
flourished his castanets as if threatening someone. the soldiers,
floundering silvery fish in the watering can, on that dam over which for
fleeing crowd. a mounted general separated himself from the infantry and
flayed, some not, and broken-down carts beside which solitary soldiers
flattered by this. anna pávlovna arranged the different groups in her
flanks was more than six miles, even if the messenger were not killed
flank now that it is nearly four o’clock and the battle is lost?
flank. in the center túshin’s forgotten battery, which had managed to
flank,” he said to himself, “the kiev grenadiers and the podólsk
flank; he knew that all the guns there had been abandoned at the very
flag let it fall from his hands. it swayed and fell, but caught on the
flabby that they looked heavier below, were twitching violently; but
fixing his weary eyes on the paper, began to read them with a fixed and
fixed straight on his son’s. something twitched in the lower part of
fixed on her.
fixed on.
five years, if he goes on like this?” presently he added: “that’s
five times. he entered the room softly. the little princess, plump and
five minutes later princess mary from her room heard something heavy
five in the afternoon,” replied bolkónski growing more animated and
fist, and tapped it on the floor, making the sparks fly, while he
fish for this dinner. the count had been a member and on the committee
first to one side and then to the other watched the smokers with evident
first time since their encounter concerning telyánin. rostóv, feeling
first regiment roared “hurrah!” so deafeningly, continuously, and
“first-rate,” said pierre, looking at dólokhov, who with a bottle
first place because her provinces have been pillaged—they say the holy
first pair of gloves, a man’s, he said that pierre could not know
first of one and then of another priest.
“first of all you must drink!”
first of all devote some time to solitude and self-examination and do
“first of all, dear friend, tell me how you are. set your friend’s
first not only what had been said but also what kutúzov would have
first he had ever written. borís and natásha were at the other window
    first epilogue: 1813 - 20
first because pierre appeared to his hussar eyes as a rich civilian, the
first appearance in society. anna pávlovna greeted him with the nod she
firmness, and expedition. i consider myself fortunate to have such a
firmness and certainty of his vocation, which radiated from his whole
firmly resolved to answer his father-in-law. moreover, the words of the
firmly believed in the possibility of the brotherhood of men united in
firmly.
firing was, he began to look for the general and his staff where they
firing?” rostóv kept asking as he came up to russian and austrian
firing in the valley. not a single muscle of his face—which in those
firing incendiary balls at the village of schön grabern visible just
firing at the augesd dam and was looking at the killed and wounded left
firing at augesd.
fires were lighted and the talk became more audible. captain túshin,
fire! our stories have some weight, not like the stories of those
fire. from pain, cold, and damp, a feverish shivering shook his whole
fire, fanned by the breeze, was rapidly spreading. the french columns
fired in the air; a third was striking the horse kutúzov himself rode.
fire and pressed it there!”
finished phrases of general interest. these sayings were prepared in the
finished.
fingers twitched nervously.
fingers, drew out a gold imperial, and lifting his eyebrows gave it to
finger at him, “i have even heard of your doings in paris!”
“fine young fellow! fine young fellow!” he said. “well, come and
fine,” said a corporal, chaffing a thin little soldier who bent under
“fine men!” remarked napoleon, looking at a dead russian grenadier,
fine! i don’t want anything, prince.”
“fine fellows, the pávlograds!” remarked the emperor.
    * fine eyes.
fine cords would soon get a bit rubbed,” said an infantryman, wiping
find the baby. at last he saw him: the rosy boy had tossed about till he
finds you to his taste as a daughter-in-law and makes a proposal to you
find, and still seeks, some secret motive in our actions. what answer
finally there were six thousand rubles for his outfit and various other
final instructions, orders, and commissions to the baggage men
filled by the domestic serfs—the men on one side and the women on
figure of túshin who was sitting cross-legged like a turk beside him.
fight. you’ll see—we shall retire.”
fighting russian soldier without connections and intrigues, and to one
fighting hussar who had been under fire.
fighting cocks preparing for battle, each vainly trying to detect signs
fighting army (with the pávlograds on the right flank of the front);
fight bonaparte by this new science you call ‘strategy.’”
fifty members of the english club and fifty guests were awaiting the
field under fire, as he had done at the head of the kursk regiment at
fields and forests of fir and birch, which were partly cut down. the
field of austerlitz, enduring the heedless blows of his left foot and
field. instead of the moving horses and hussars’ backs, he saw nothing
field glass and shrugging his shoulders, “so it is! they’ll be fired
feverish delirium or drunkenness.
feu, et oublie celui qu’il devait faire faire sur l’ennemi!” *(2)
fetch the frenchman, moreau,” he said, alluding to the invitation made
festivities and fireworks are becoming wearisome.”
festive in his air, which, in conjunction with his firm and virile
festive around him. nearer and nearer to rostóv came that sun shedding
ferdinand disgraces himself. you abandon vienna, give up its
felt the tension of the amorous air in the house, and also noticed a
felt the impossibility of going to sleep on such a night. it was light
felt that the battle of which he had brought tidings was far, far
felt so glad to be free from his own lawlessness and to submit his will
felt perfectly happy. just then the commander appeared on the bridge.
felt it indecorous to speak of her pregnancy before pierre, though the
felt coat, stretched his legs, and set his cap straight. the head of the
felt a wish to speak to the stranger, but by the time he had made up his
fellow! what you have just said is good, very good. of course you
fellows on the staff who get rewards without doing anything!”
fellows have all lost your wits, or i have outlived mine. may god help
fellow,” he said abruptly and eagerly, “i must confess to having
fellow could have played such a prank on a policeman.
fellow.”
fellow.”
fell from him. he was glad, and at the same instant began to pity the
feigned severity. “you spoil her, ilyá,” she added, turning to her
feigned—or so it seemed to rostóv. he put his horse to a trot to
feet were the only sounds that could be heard. anna mikháylovna, with
feet that moved through the sticky mud that covered the planks of the
feet into his slippers and his arms into the sleeves of his dressing
feet in their overboots on the table, and began to reflect.
feet in low shoes, iogel flew first across the hall with natásha, who,
feel,” thought he, “if she saw me here now on this field with the
feel that in that place and on that day, it was improper to speak so of
feels, anyone who comes in sight of the enemy, and that feeling gives
feel like it, she became enthusiastic in order not to disappoint the
feelings in others, and if never having felt them i cannot approve of
feeling; sharing with the young folk of the rostóvs’ household a
feelings. but much as all the rest laughed, talked, and joked, much
feeling of sickening agitation.
feeling of devotion returned to him even more strongly than before. when
feeling of a hare fleeing from the hounds. one single sentiment, that
feel afraid.”
feeble voice to which he tried to impart a dashing note, ill-suited to
feeble voice, so high pitched and irresolute. his face grew more and
feeble voice of the commander in chief was heard. the regiment roared,
fédya, my dear count; that, believe me, is why i am so fond of you. few
features. nicholas was short with curly hair and an open expression.
features, gave him a rather comical expression. bekleshëv and theodore
fear would prevent her understanding any of her father’s further
fear this will oblige one half the army to shoot the other.”
fears nothing so much as a general battle is impossible.”
fear’s all gone, and your only thought is not to let him get away!’
fearing to relax, shouted with his mouth wide open and passed on.
fearing to be captured by the french on the way to krems.
feared him.
fear appeared on her flushed face.
fear, and the thought that he might be killed or badly wounded never
favorite, “how is it you have so little tact? don’t you see you are
fault. what’s he to do if he has such luck?... and it’s not my fault
fault!” and her voice quivered like that of a child about to cry.
father with a laugh.
father to the ambassador’s entertainment; she wore a ball dress and
father to fits of bloodthirsty rage. and when after pierre’s
father to be a connection of prince vasíli’s. the elderly lady who
father there would be nothing i could reproach you with,” said anna
“father, tell me how it happened,” she asked through her tears.
father’s study as the latter wished to say good-by to him alone. all
father’s room with the good-humored and victorious air natural to
father’s room, that huge room in which count bezúkhov had died.
father’s ridicule of the new men, and drew him on and listened to him
father’s nature showed itself in pierre. he felt the fascination and
father’s letter, he returned to the nursery.
“father,” she said, “do not turn away from me, let us weep
father’s friendship for you; but now i entreat you for god’s sake to
father’s face with an eager and respectful look. “how is your
father’s case.
father, muttered in a whisper:
“father kutúzov.”
father... it’s bad....” he reflected, but while he was thinking this
father in order to puzzle or test his sister.
father-in-law and now at princess mary. when they left the table she
father, he feels for you.”
father, count bezúkhov, and showed them her own box. princess hélène
father and son. this lasted about two minutes, which to pierre seemed an
“father! andrew!”—said the ungraceful, awkward princess with such
father and anna mikháylovna, that it had something to do with her
father and andrew. i shall be so happy when she is his wife. she is so
father?”
fat finger.
     fate—(the fate of the army at ulm).”
fate. it is in your hands.”
fate, her father-in-law, and her husband. after crying she had fallen
fate and in spite of the pleasures and distractions around me i cannot
“faster!” came the word of command, and rostóv felt rook’s flanks
fastening his coat. when he had finished, he turned to bezúkhov, and
fastened to the cording of his uniform and, indicating a bandaged arm,
fast asleep with his head on his arm.
fast as her nimble little feet would carry her. borís did not laugh.
farther, probably along the line of the french camp. rostóv no longer
farther into the region where the army was already in action.
farther and farther he rode away, stopping at other regiments, till at
far. by intrigues, violence, exile, and executions, french society—i
“fancy, with his powerful mind, indulging in such nonsense!”
fancies.
famous order of the day to general bennigsen:
family, was the most gifted with a capacity to feel any shades of
family’s, and his friends’, and the enemy’s intention to kill him
family life continually rose in her imagination. she drove them away and
family consultation; is it not so, prince?”
family, but was kept all summer in moscow by his new duties. dólokhov
familiar voice, “what i say is that if it were possible to know
familiar voice. “one is afraid of the unknown, that’s what it is.
familiar to rostóv; the other on a beautiful chestnut horse (which
familiar gallop of coquetry, without any ulterior motive or any
false. he was happy to be seeing him. he knew that he might and even
fallen, and an old trooper on the flank, a noncommissioned officer who
fallen!”
‘faithful slave,’ as you call yourself! but how do you do? i see i
faithfully as i can, without disquieting myself by examining my feelings
faire dans cette galère?” * occurred to him, and he began to laugh at
faint with fear lest the baby should be drowned in the font, and awaited
failed him. he was seized by panic and could not go where it was
failed. borís on the contrary at once found his footing, and related
faculty, so invaluable in society, of composure and imperturbable
fact of a great man executing a duc—or even an ordinary man who—is
fact.
facing the quartermaster who was reporting to him. on seeing rostóv,
face with prince andrew, who came out frowning and looking old. pierre
face, which had been so radiantly happy all that saint’s day, suddenly
face was animated, which, however, did not conceal its sunken and faded
face to prince andrew, smiled, and waved his hand.
faces, the wall of soldiers burdened with knapsacks and muskets marched
faces of the crew bustling round the guns, from the sight of the blood
face, shook his head, and going up to him silently kissed him on the
faces. (he distinctly saw an old french officer who, with gaitered
face looked worn—he too had evidently not slept all night. he glanced
face. “let him see whether i am a coward!” he thought.
face in the lace of her mother’s mantilla—not paying the least
face instantly changed and assumed an offensively affected, sugary
face; his eyes continually wandered from one object to another.
face changed into a winning and piteous look of fear. her beautiful eyes
face assumed the coarse, unpleasant expression peculiar to him. shaking
face assumed its melancholy expression), “he was mentioned at her
face assumed a forced unnatural expression as soon as she looked in a
face as if driving off a troublesome fly. “and why are you stopping
face, and prince andrew saw that hippolyte, of whom—he had to
face and just nodded to him with his long head. but after it was
face, and again at the arm, and on his face a feeble, piteous smile
face, already growing old, though he was dressed like a most fashionable
face.
eyes. what she found hardest to bear was to know that on such occasions
eyes, went with unusually hurried steps down the long corridor leading
eyes to complete the show of prisoners, could not fail to attract his
eyes. the sick man was turned on to his side with his face to the wall.
eyes. then having satisfied himself that all eyes were fixed on him,
eyes. the englishman looked on sideways, pursing up his lips. the man
eyes still shifted from side to side but with a downward look not rising
eyes, rostóv re-entered that world of home and childhood which had no
eyes rolling as he sang, with his small, husky, but true voice, some
eyes off him. his brother and sisters struggled for the places nearest
eye socket. “yes, he has a right to speak so calmly of those men’s
eyes lit up so that her face was entirely transformed. then she suddenly
eyes kept closing, and in his fancy appeared—now the emperor, now
eyes. his shriveled old hands were folded and on the finger of one of
eyes he was every day more and more connected with her, that it was
eyes. he really was in love with the tsar and the glory of the russian
eyes had uttered french phrases between his teeth. every muscle of his
eyes grew moist. “hurrah!” cried the three hundred voices again,
eyes grew dim. by the expression of her father’s face, not sad, not
eyes full of tears and of thoughts, gazing shiningly and imploringly at
“eyes front!” then, like the crowing of cocks at sunrise, this was
eyes fixed on the dark face of a large icon of the saviour lit by a
eyes. “but i’ll go to bezúkhov’s myself. pierre has arrived, and
eyes attracted him irresistibly.
eyes at her sister-in-law.
eyes and saw close before him the head and ears of the horse he was
eyes and indicating hélène with a sorrowful gesture. “ah, she is
eyes and ears intent on the colonel.
eyes.
eyes.
eyes.
eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of god, are
eyebrows which, when he frowned, sometimes hid the gleam of his shrewd,
extricated himself from an awkward situation and placed another in it,
extrémités de l’univers, nous allons lui faire éprouver le même
extraordinary may happen to one that honor and dishonor will be all the
extraordinary intelligence, the more so as in the depth of his heart it
extinguished and some spirit lighted, as pierre knew by the smell, and
externally was all in order, but had it pleased the commander in chief
extends along kobelnitz and sokolnitz behind the ponds that are there,
expression which was never to be seen on it in a drawing room. his eyes
expression. véra was good-looking, not at all stupid, quick at
expression, though many of them knew that what he was saying was a lie
expression the sculptor had happened to give the angel’s face, prince
expression—the same man who had rushed out of the wattle shed. at that
expressions with the choicest french phrases—which was a peculiarity
expression she did not understand, and lay down again. he was suffering
expression only in her more and more beaming face and quivering nose.
expression on his face changed in a way evidently deliberate and
expression of profound and sincere devotion and respect mingled with
expression of her father’s. his face wore that expression when his
expression, looked observantly and sympathetically at the father and
expression. it was the heavy tread of princess mary that he heard.
expression, evidently habitual to him when conversing with women.
expression. “c’est... c’est du mack. nous sommes mackés (it is...
expression and went out again without saying a word. she looked at
expressing disapproval and dislike of kutúzov.
expressing... as in its last note... you understand... besides, unless
express his opinion as he had hoped to, left on him a vague and uneasy
expresses his opinion to kutúzov, to weyrother, and to the emperors.
expressed the concentrated and happy resolution you see on the face of
expressed impetuosity and enthusiasm. nicholas blushed when he entered
expressed his opinion more openly. he shrugged his shoulders when pierre
expressed disapproval of dólokhov’s living at their house, and how
exposing himself to the first blows of the enemy, for there must be no
expose to a bullet, and then you congratulate us on the victory! admit
exposed! if i were asked what i desire most on earth, it would be to be
exposed. another emissary rode to the russian line to announce the peace
exposed, and without fuel or forage, so something must be done, and, as
exposed—and she seemed to bring the glamour of a ballroom with her as
explanation with nicholas, sónya twirled about before she left home
explanations, however clear they might be. whether it was the
explaining that dólokhov was betting with stevens, an english naval
explained prince andrew. “the others, one’s neighbors, le prochain,
explained how to rivet the hoof and went away to his own quarters.
experiencing a new and peculiar pleasure. sónya, muttering to herself,
experience that feeling during those memorable days preceding the battle
experienced a variety of most complex sensations. he felt afraid of what
expeditions to olmütz to visit a certain caroline the hungarian,
expedition.... but what’s the southern army to do? prussia is
expecting two very interesting men tonight, le vicomte de mortemart, who
expecting to hear something very profound. at last he came up to morio.
expecting the summons to zakúska, * avoid engaging in any long
expecting that he would have a chance to give a reliable account, which
expecting anything from yourself in the future, you will feel at every
expecting a crisis.”
expect he has forgotten me. he paid me attentions in those days,” said
expected to be at once presented to the emperor. at the chief entrance
expected this.
expectations of those who knew her. the subdued smile which, though it
existence of such an incomprehensible being, a being all-powerful,
executing of the plan.
executed him—also for some reason. what is bad? what is good? what
excuses now! it’s your turn to sing the ba’cawolla—i entweat
excuse me, vicomte—i must tell it in russian or the point will be
“excuse me, general,” interrupted kutúzov, also turning to prince
excuse his costume.
exclamation he was asking the adjutant to wait, and he went on with the
exclaimed in excellent french.
exclaimed, and immediately seizing him by the shoulder and looking
excitement, rushed toward the drawing room door, probably in order to
excitement, around chin and mouth. the quartermaster frowned, looking
excitement and to being unaccustomed to speak of abstract matters in
excitement.
excitement.
excitedly animated and healthy men.” so thinks, or at any rate
excited and irritated by these thoughts prince andrew went toward his
except veneration could such a man as my father evoke? and i am so
except to pierre and hélène, whose presence he seemed not to notice.
exception made, and borís transferred into the regiment of semënov
except in the army; i am not a diplomat or a government clerk.—i
except a few scattered skirmishers. an empty space of some seven hundred
excellent dinners for the officers at every halting place. the regiments
excellency’s participation in the common action is highly valued by
excellency. shall i go with some of my hussars to see?” replied
excellency prince vasíli kurágin and his son, i understand?” she
excellency?... nobody knows.”
excellency... i had no men... your excellency.”
excellency!”
exceedingly lofty, the members of the household and the footmen—one
exceeded twenty thousand rubles. dólokhov was no longer listening to
exasperated with one another and, long after the action had begun on
exasperated whisper, evidently meaning to wound his sister.
exalted personages passing in the streets in their elegant carriages
exaggeration quite contrary to christian simplicity. let us rather read
exaggerated grasseyement, “the prince has been scolding michael
“exactly, not a hair’s breadth farther,” answered prince vasíli,
exactitude, what minuteness, what knowledge of the locality, what
exactitude. he always came to table under precisely the same conditions,
exacting, so that without being a hardhearted man he inspired such fear
evil. le prochain—your kiev peasants to whom you want to do good.”
evil can there be in it if unfortunate people, our serfs, people like
evident that the cadet was liberal with his tips and that it paid to
evident that he not only knew everyone in the drawing room, but had
evidently wishing to give her words a very definite meaning. “i
evidently wished to draw him on.
evidently weakened, was undertaking nothing.
evidently those in front had halted. all remained where they were in the
evidently the prince understood her, and also understood, as he had done
evidently rigged up by soldiers out of any available materials and
evidently not because he was shaven but because they had never grown.
evidently listening to herself with pleasure, and speaking with
evidently in the village itself and behind the hill. to the left from
evidently in a fit of rage, his coal-black eyes with their bloodshot
evidently glad of a chance to say quicker in words what he wanted to
evidently forced. not only the guests but even the footmen waiting at
evidently expecting him to bow or to step out of his way. prince andrew
evidently did not realize what they were doing.
evidently did not expect.
evidently also felt depressed and constrained with his visitor, “i am
evident he had reflected on this subject more than once, and he spoke
evident duty.” she paused. all were silent, expectant of what was to
evidence of the advantages of attacking that what had been discussed
every word and movement was described with ecstasy.
everywhere. he might easily become aide-de-camp to the emperor. you know
every time a ball flew past. rostóv on the left flank, mounted on his
everything within and around him seemed confused, senseless, and
everything was becoming more and more happy and animated. “oh, how i
everything that took place and was reported to him was exactly what he
“everything’s the same with them. they know nothing about it! where
“everything’s still the same with them,” thought nicholas,
everything seemed so futile and insignificant in comparison with the
everything!” said nicholas. “and i will prove it to you.”
everything over with, and i happen to be there, i’ll go at once, to
everything, only i have nothing....”
everything may be over for me! all these memories will be no more, none
everything is calculated, and i don’t like that. but denísov...”
everything. i often wonder at you, annette—how at your age you
everything in perfect order, only one little thing is lacking, namely,
everything!” (he put one arm around pierre and the other around his
everything from the table napkins to the silver, china, and glass bore
everything from society and giving nothing in return. you have become
everything before you, everything. and you....”
everything became clear, and in all corners of moscow the same things
everything and everybody at last and had spoken such pathetic words to
every ten seconds a cannon ball flew compressing the air around, or
everyone waited, so emphatically and eagerly did he demand their
everyone’s situation. tout comprendre, c’est tout pardonner. * think
everyone, including anna pávlovna, felt this.
everyone he could stop, but got no answer from anyone.
“everyone has his achilles’ heel,” continued prince andrew.
everyone ducked. it flopped into something moist, and the general fell
everyone again looked toward the door, which creaked as the second
everyone adopted toward him the tone of men who know something others do
everyone.
everyone!
every muscle of telyánin’s pale, terrified face began to quiver, his
every day he said to himself one and the same thing: “it is time i
everybody! not forgetting anyone. i always said when he was only so
everybody laughed, and hippolyte louder than anyone. he was evidently
everybody laughed a great deal. at the head of the table, where the
“everybody is wondering to whom the count will leave his fortune,
everybody, for another ten years. it would be far easier and simpler for
every advantage. what receptions we had in poland! what dinners and
ever was borís resolved to serve in future not according to the written
ever since he had overtaken the regiment in poland, had lived with the
ever because anatole’s presence had vividly recalled to her the time
even wish to know of his existence but would now have been offended
even try to do so. all were watching the count and márya dmítrievna.
event must be allowed to disturb the appointed order of the day. prince
event. in the english club, where all who were distinguished, important,
even their faces, more and more distinctly. they were our horse guards,
even pushed aside, he began wrapping it round the princess. either from
even people who had formerly been spiteful toward him and evidently
even more so. i like being alone.... father likes her very much. she and
even more merrily than on the previous night. denísov celebrated his
even more beautiful than it had been three days before at the review. it
evenly, and then raised his head. he had an intellectual and distinctive
even know if it would be a good thing (he even felt, he knew not why,
even in the best, most friendly and simplest relations of life, praise
even in his way; but all at once he felt that this would not do, and
evening when the rewards bestowed by the emperor were mentioned.
evening was this:
evening to get in) “i only wished to say that we are wrong to fight
evening. there was room enough in the wide corridor for the generals to
evening passed, night came, and the feeling of suspense and softening of
evening light and the blue tunics advancing from the other side with
evening in advance of him, and he and his son arrived next day.
evening.
“even if it were a great deal of trouble...” answered prince andrew,
even every footstep in that house since the terrible news had come, so
even denísov was nothing compared to dólokhov—“you must understand
even by a ball dress.
    * “europe will never be our sincere ally.”
eternity.” and again he twisted the screw with the stripped thread,
eternal, and infinite in all his attributes?...”
estrangement, and ridicule with which troops of different arms usually
estime que je professe pour the orthodox russian army, j’avoue que
estates in the south and there attending to the welfare of his serfs.
estates. his new brethren gave him letters to the kiev and odessa masons
estate near moscow, and to receive many people who formerly did not
established intimacy with the french marshals, and so dazzled by the
essential to speak the whole truth.
essential, and after a short interval followed her. anna mikháylovna
essen corps arrived and prussia took our side.
especially the youngest, the pretty one with the mole, who often made
especially appealed to pierre. the important mystery mentioned by the
especially after having dined, bolkónski felt that he could not take in
escorted him to the door, repeating something to him several times in
escape it anyhow.”
escape it all, and felt that dólokhov knew that he could save him from
escape, and bagratión’s four thousand men merrily lighted campfires,
escapade made everybody feel confused. denísov blushed too, but smiled
err, and in nothing more than in what they consider right and wrong.”
erect on his handsome black horse, looking about him in a leisurely and
erect, almost on tiptoe, with a soldier’s obsequious expression on his
equip him.”
equals, while his eyes occasionally sought out his fine well-set-up
equality. have people since the revolution become happier? on the
epaulettes had been packing with his valet in the rooms assigned to him.
envious and natásha could not help joining in.
enveloped in those beams, he heard his voice, that kindly, calm,
entrusted to his care and whom he intended to benefit.
entrusted to him, was pedantic in the fulfillment of his duties, severe
entrenchment. they had to hold their noses and put their horses to a
entrenchments looked out just as menacingly, and the unlimbered cannon
entrenchments being thrown up, the freshly dug clay of which showed up
entreaties. soon after anna pávlovna’s reception anna mikháylovna
entrance to the dam raised his hand and opened his mouth to address
entrance. the prince was working at the lathe and after glancing round
entrance, after scrutinizing the mother and son (who without asking to
entice him to marry my daughter and lend me the forty thousand rubles
enthusiasm—was only the loss of the battle of austerlitz, the
enthusiasms, dreams, and hopes of happiness or goodness, in prince
enter the drawing room? even if i like him i can’t now be myself with
enter that room.
entertainment at the gypsies’, with the result that he had no
entertaining supposition.
entering the misty region with a sound of hoofs and wheels and now and
entering the house, prince andrew saw nesvítski and another adjutant
entering the house occupied by kutúzov, asked for bolkónski. prince
entered the room. prince vasíli approached first, and she kissed the
entered the room.
entered the room.
entered the room.
entered their heads that it could have been otherwise at this meeting.
entered the drawing room elegantly dressed in the uniform of an
entered, the bronze handle of one of the doors turned and prince vasíli
entered his father’s dressing room (not with the contemptuous look and
entered, as if to say: “yes, that’s how i want you to look.”
entered.
“enough! what nonsense! above all, try to be respectful and cautious
enough to see a long way in the deserted street and it seemed more like
enough, at the end of the feast proposed the emperor’s health. “not
enormous whole.
enormous table would say: “well, dmítri, you’ll see that things are
enlighten their minds, by means handed on to us by tradition from those
enlightenment?”
enjoyment by sympathy with anyone’s sorrow,” she felt, and she said
enjoyed narrating all this, and did not seem to suspect that others,
enjoyable. that year two marriages had come of these balls. the two
engrossed by it, yet his strut seemed to indicate that, besides military
“england is done for,” said he, scowling and pointing his finger
engagement and his reception by the minister of war.
engaged; he was shouting “hurrah!”
energetically than anyone, led the guests into the drawing room, and
energetic a character. he is so accustomed to unlimited power that he is
enemy under the emperor’s command. commanded by the emperor himself
enemy three times as strong, who would hem him in from two sides.
enemy’s horse patrols could be discerned.
enemy, do not avenge thyself except by doing him good. thus fulfilling
enemy?”
enemies, he tried to continue reading. but feeling this to be senseless
endure this man who is a menace to everything.”
end spurred his horse.
end of the meal. he winked at the butler, whispered directions to the
end of his gun...” a soldier whose greatcoat was well tucked up said
ending pierre’s unpleasant and unamiable outburst. after the anecdote
ended with a thud into something soft... f-f-flop! and a cossack, riding
“encouraging us to get along quicker,” said another uneasily.
encounter one another at the clean, smart hussars who moved past them in
encounter an enemy invisible ten paces off. but the columns advanced
en conjure...”
   enchantress, say, to my forsaken lyre
encampment, and not within sight of the enemy before an action in
emptying his glass at one gulp he dashed it to the floor. many followed
empty and that the nurse had been hiding the dead baby. he drew the
emptied them, rolling the vodka in their mouths, and walked away from
empress’ field,” said he clearly and distinctly.
empress’ field, not understanding the significance of the firing, nor
employed by lively chatty people, and consisting in the assumption
emphatically.
emperor was pale, his cheeks sunken and his eyes hollow, but the charm,
emperor,” thought rostóv.
emperor. the emperor francis, a rosy, long faced young man, sat very
emperors. upon them the undivided, tensely passionate attention of that
emperor’s eyes met rostóv’s and rested on them for not more than
emperor’s arrival, lay several killed and wounded soldiers whom there
emperor,” said rostóv, and was about to spur his horse.
emperor not everyone could understand, and with his whole soul he shared
emperor napoleon if we take this bridge, so let us three go and take
emperor napoleon burns with impatience to make prince auersperg’s
emperor himself rode round his bivouacs. the soldiers, on seeing him,
emperor had only just fallen asleep and so savary had to wait. at midday
emperor francis would have been fulfilled long ago. i should long
emperor francis continued to look about him and did not listen.
emperor at once rode up to him, offered his services, and assisted him
emperor and the whole army, especially while the smoke hung over
emperor alexander’s visit to potsdam, and of how the two august
emperor alexander hurriedly to kutúzov, glancing courteously at the
emperor, about the remarks he had heard at court concerning the krems
emitting a smoke ring.
embroidered court uniform, knee breeches, and shoes, and had stars on
embracing prince vasíli.
embracing denísov. “nicholas wrote us... natásha, véra, look! here
embraced him and lifting his spectacles kissed his friend on the cheek
embittered look clouded her once handsome face, but only for a moment;
embarrassment looked pierre straight in the face.
embarrassing situation, and the expression on his face was invariably
embarrassing attentions. on the face of the wag zherkóv there suddenly
embarrassed voice, though it sounded severe to denísov—“but my
embarrassed him. he was like a man entirely absorbed in some occupation.
else the tsar did.
else, runs upstairs and does up her hair and wags her tail and is unlike
else,” replied anna pávlovna.
else, my dear boy, let me tell you it’s quite likely you’ll have to
else.
else.
elegantly. bilíbin’s services were valued not only for what he wrote,
eldest who was reading—the one who had met anna mikháylovna. the
eldest princess, who were sitting under the portrait of catherine the
elders which seems to say to the older generation, “we are prepared to
elders.
elderly face, and she took the money from under the handkerchief.
elder daughter, countess véra, with a smile.
elbows turned outwards, his hands on his knees, and his shoulders
elbows, as if to say: “you can tell me your views later, but now be so
elated. he had noticed a solitary tree ahead of him. this tree had been
ekonómov.
either the place they were leaving or that to which they were going.
either,” he thought. “yes, i did not know anything, anything at all
either,” he thought to himself, “i have done nothing wrong. have i
either. don’t i know that at the rate we are living our means won’t
eighty thousand allied troops rose from their bivouacs to the hum of
eh?... what then?... eh?”
“eh? what?” asked prince andrew.
“eh, is she pretty?” he asked with a wink.
“eh, is anything hurting you?” asked the soldier, shaking his shirt
“eh, eh, friend! come here a bit,” said she, assuming a soft high
eh, dmítri! gallop off to our moscow estate,” he said to the factotum
“eh, brother! they’ve all bolted long ago!” said the soldier,
egged on against each other.
effrayée, as he called it, shoes, and silk stockings.
effort to say this. “without a name and without means... and it
effort to move her shoulders or bend her arms when turning, or stamp
effort to look at the servant who stood constantly at the head of the
effort. the bottle was emptying perceptibly and rising still higher
efforts to seem calm.
effect on everyone, smiled and, evidently unmoved by what had been
effected the dangerous crossing of the straits of dover and captured
   e’en fortunate napoleon
edge of the clearing. the seconds, measuring the paces, left tracks in
écossaise was ended, he clapped his hands to the musicians and shouted
ebook or online at www.gutenberg.org
easy to take marshals, sitting on a sofa by the fire! that is true, but
easy. and tell me, please—i’ve been meaning to ask—how is he
easy.
early in the year 1806 nicholas rostóv returned home on leave. denísov
eager questions from all sides. the whole moving mass began pressing
eagerness and briskness presented a marked contrast to the dissatisfied
eagerly and rather disdainfully, not resting on anything although his
each visitor performed the ceremony of greeting this old aunt whom not
each time with fresh pleasure and each time discovered in it fresh
each time he touched his forehead. his face wore a calm look of piety
each other’s arms warmly pressing their lips to whatever place they
each of those present, and the advantages that might accrue. he took
each occasion had been driven back by grapeshot from the four isolated
each face, appraising the possibilities of establishing intimacy with
each ascent or descent of the road the crowds were yet denser and the
dying of fright. i did, ‘pon my word, i got that frightened!” said
dying man wished to see, her own admission was assured. casting a rapid
dying man, but passed by him, joined the eldest princess, and moved
dying father. “it is painful, but it does one good. it uplifts the
duty. the emperor is gracious, and i shan’t forget you if you deserve
duties on you, and you must be a man.”
dust from the sleeve of his uniform, and going up to a mirror examined
during this transfer he felt a little stronger and was able to look
during the five years he had known her, and how her head had cracked
during the battle, and feeling reassured he dozed off.... the dark
during that stay in petersburg, borís became an intimate in the
during rostóv’s short stay in moscow, before rejoining the army, he
dull without you,” said she, giving him a tender smile.
dull eyes looked at him in silence. it seemed to prince andrew that the
dull expression.
duke’s orders the men had marched all the way in step (a practice on
duke constantine pávlovich, who commanded the guards. the rostóvs
due to her misfortune. when conversation turned on her husband hélène
duel prove? that you’re a fool, que vous êtes un sot, but everybody
duelist, who was living with anatole. pierre smiled, looking about him
duelist and rake, and every now and then he glanced ironically at
duel he did not go to his bedroom but, as he often did, remained in his
duc even the most partial ceased to regard him as a hero. if to some
dry hands clenched with vexation at her not understanding a sum in
drummer, their leader, turned round facing the singers, and flourishing
drubetskáya, who as a member of the household was also seated in the
drowsiness overpowered him, red rings danced before his eyes, and the
drove his huge spurs in violently, and the horse, flourishing its tail
drops and again went up to the cot.
dropping into his usual after-dinner nap, and laughed at everything.
dropping her voice. “my wretched lawsuit takes all i have and makes no
dropped it into a leather pouch attached to the lathe, and, approaching
drooping tail.
drooping as he broke into a gallop.
driving into the court of count bezúkhov’s house. as the wheels
drive up, went to meet him.
drive the princess away by that scream... “killed!”
driver’s leg. their spirits once roused were, however, not diminished,
driven their two-horse carts loaded with wheat and had returned dusty
drink shop or fall ill. just as i could not stand his terrible physical
drink?”
dried and warmed themselves, cooked their porridge for the first time
drew in his legs and sat up, seeking a firm center of gravity. he sucked
drew his saber, and with a happy and resolute countenance, opening
drew her chair nearer to that of the countess.
drew anatole, whom she hardly knew, into these amusing recollections of
dress with her little hand, now arranging the scarf and looking at her
dress under her, hiding her face with her slender fingers, and sobbing
dress, mademoiselle bourienne’s ribbon, princess mary’s unbecoming
dressing gown, spectacled and wigless, shouting in an angry voice.
dressing gown looked out.
dressing gown every day, he invariably became confused and begged her to
dress her would prolong their banter and insistence. she flushed, her
dress, have it fetched. really! you know the fate of your whole life may
dress, girdled with a broad ribbon just below the breast.
dressed. princess mary’s self-esteem was wounded by the fact that
dressed gay young men on splendid, well-groomed, fresh, only slightly
dressed for his attendance at court in full parade uniform, which he
dressed, at a round table in the clean quarters allotted to them,
dressed and undressed, drying their shirts and leg bands or mending
dressed alike, in new pale-blue frocks, and were both fresh, rosy, and
dress as fresh and elegant as the other. prince andrew rose and politely
drawing room with her habitual skill. the large group, in which were
drawing room. the guests began to disperse, some without taking leave
drawing room, helped to receive and entertain the visitors. the young
drawing room, approaching now a silent, now a too-noisy group, and by a
drawing room. and, in fact, bilíbin’s witticisms were hawked about
drawing room.
drawing room.
drawing room.
drawing him down put her arm round his thin, scraggy neck.
draw breath.
drank much, and eagerly. but those who knew him intimately noticed that
dragoons. in the center, where túshin’s battery stood and from which
dragging it by the staff, ran on with the battalion. in front he saw our
dozens of soldiers, continually replaced by others, who ran from the
“do you want anything?”
“do you understand what you’re saying?” he said in a trembling
“do you think so?... really? truly?” she said, quickly smoothing her
“do you think he can last till morning?” asked the german,
“do you see?... my doll... mimi... you see...” was all natásha
“do you remember we had a talk about cards... ‘he’s a fool who
“do you remember me?” asked borís quietly with a pleasant smile.
“do you remember him?” natásha suddenly asked, after a moment’s
do you remain silent when heaven knows who permits herself to
“do you or do you not know where that will is?” insisted prince
“do you know, you are a terrible chap for all your innocent airs,”
     *do you know the proverb?
“do you know, that fat pierre who sat opposite me is so funny!” said
“do you know?” said pierre, as if suddenly struck by a happy
“do you know, mon cher,” said bilíbin following him, “i have been
“do you know,” he said at last, evidently unable to check the sad
do you know he has fallen in love with sónya?”
“do you hear how he’s walking?” said tíkhon, drawing the
dowry and take mademoiselle bourienne into the bargain. she’ll be the
downy lip was open and she was smiling joyfully. prince andrew entered
downward. when pierre came up the count was gazing straight at him, but
downwards as was his habit.
down to her neck and shoulders while nicholas was speaking.
down the wax, the seal, and the paper, with his accustomed rapidity.
down the room for a long time, no longer piercing an imaginary foe with
down the hillsides, and clouds of cannon smoke rolling, spreading,
downstairs to his own room. a quarter of an hour later the old count
down on the sofa, facing her brother. “she is quite a child: such a
down on one of the tubs, picked it up.
down on her with outstretched hands shouted, “get out!” in such a
down. one bullet and then another whistled past him. he mustered his
down on a sofa near the silver samovar, as if all she was doing was a
down on a sofa in the next room.
down, lightly touched his daughter’s hair and sat down again.
down laws for austria at schönbrunn, il faut lui faire grâce de
down in her easy chair, now taking her prayer book, now kneeling before
downcast head; and he began to pace the room, glancing occasionally at
down below, but higher up at the village of schlappanitz where napoleon
down. anna mikháylovna indicated by her attitude her consciousness of
down, and smiled affectionately.
down!”
doubt of victory, especially on this day when what is at stake is the
doubt it now. rostóv rode in the direction pointed out to him, in which
doubt filled her soul. could the joy of love, of earthly love for a
doubt, and self-derision, which appeared on his face against his will,
doubled. to this prince andrew answered with a smile that he could
do to get here.”
do this for my son—and i shall always regard you as a benefactor,”
“do this for my sake, mon cher; after all, she had to put up with a
do they look at me?” then he lifted his head, stretched his neck as
do the right thing.
do the doctors say?” asked the princess after a pause, her worn face
“do stop joking, bilíbin,” cried bolkónski.
     do, sire.”
“do promise, do promise, vasíli!” cried anna mikháylovna as he
doppelkümmel. the officers gladly gathered round him, some on their
door. while he was getting down from the carriage steps two men, who
door opened quickly and the stern figure of the old man in the white
door? oh, she is a pearl among women, princess,” he added, turning to
“do order them to form into battalion columns and go round the
door behind him and satisfied himself that there was nobody else in the
door, as though he had long expected him.
door and his expression of sleepy indifference suddenly changed to one
door, and added in a whisper so that her son should not hear, “wish me
“don’t you wecollect what bad use i made of your lessons?”
“don’t you want to? well, then, come here,” said she, and
don’t wish to let me go, i’ll stay. but i know i am no use anywhere
don’t understand. perhaps princess elizabeth and princess mary know.
don’t trouble yourself further.”
“don’t touch me,” said rostóv, drawing back. “if you need it,
“don’t touch him! you’ll startle him and then he’ll be killed.
“don’t tease! well, and what has been decided about novosíltsev’s
“don’t speak to me... i beg you,” muttered pierre hoarsely.
“don’t say that to me! i want nothing. i love you as a brother and
don’t remember borís. i don’t remember him a bit.”
don’t need it? now you shall judge between us. i always tell him: here
“don’t, natásha! what nonsense!” she said, hoping it was a joke.
“don’t mention it, general, as if i’d be so bold!” replied the
“don’t like bowwowing from my own fellows, i don’t,” growled
don’t know me. we have not met for such a long time... not since we
don’t know how to hide what i feel.” as he spoke he kept glancing
don’t know and never shall know, for the love of these men here,” he
“don’t kick up the dust, you infantry!” jested an hussar whose
“don’t joke; i mean to have a serious talk with you. do you know
don’t get promoted to a sublieutenancy.”
don’t forget to put out my new coat,” added rostóv, fingering his
don’t feel that weakness in myself as yet, i know a little person who
“don’t! don’t! what are you about?” whispered their frightened
“don’t come in,” she said to the old count who was following her.
don’t care a straw about anyone but those i love; but those i love,
“don’t, borís! you are such a diplomat that it is really
“don’t be unkind,” cried anna pávlovna from her end of the table
do not suppose me to be so bad. with my whole soul i wish to be what you
“do not let us lose any time...”
do not break your ranks on the plea of removing the wounded! let every
do next. anna mikháylovna with her eyes indicated a chair that stood
done up.
done to me?”—said her charming, pathetic, dead face.
done, the rhetor said:
done the job just as well.”
done shall be. now listen! give this letter to michael ilariónovich. *
done no harm to anyone; why must i suffer so? help me!” her look
done. have you chosen a post in which you might be of service to your
done for him! i hope that here in moscow no one will receive him, in
dominated everything else and soared above all their affected chatter.
domestic serfs were crowding in the hall, waiting to bid good-by to
dólokhov who was in the midst of the crowd forced his way to the edge
dólokhov, whom everyone in the house liked except natásha. she almost
dólokhov, who had no reason to preserve the honor of a man who was
dólokhov, who had already changed into a soldier’s gray greatcoat,
dólokhov was of medium height, with curly hair and light-blue eyes. he
dólokhov was holding the englishman’s hand and clearly and distinctly
dólokhov was a secret to no one but himself. pierre absolutely
dólokhov turned round and, again holding on with both hands, arranged
dólokhov, the bottle of rum still in his hand, jumped onto the window
dólokhov’s words into english. a thin young lad, an hussar of the
dólokhov. suddenly a cannon ball hissed so low above the crowd that
dólokhov stood frowning and did not speak. pierre jumped upon the
dólokhov still sat in the same position, only his head was thrown
dólokhov’s second, and after dinner he discussed the arrangements for
dólokhov’s reply.
dólokhov’s proposal and iogel’s ball, seemed to have grown thicker
dólokhov’s offer,” he said, articulating his friend’s name with
dólokhov smiled. “don’t trouble. if i want anything, i won’t
dólokhov slowly straightened his bent knee, looking straight with his
dólokhov, slamming down the pack of cards, put it aside and began
dólokhov’s home: on the third day he received a note from him:
dólokhov’s hands and thought, “now then, make haste and let me have
dólokhov’s hand.
dólokhov’s face.
dólokhov’s clear, cold glance met rostóv as soon as he entered the
dólokhov’s back in his white shirt, and his curly head, were lit
dólokhov pressed rostóv’s hand and burst into tears.
dólokhov, pierre saw clearly that what was said in the letter might be
dólokhov paused.
dólokhov or answering him. the footman, who was distributing leaflets
dólokhov often dined at the rostóvs’, never missed a performance at
dólokhov—now an officer—wounded in the arm, and on foot, with
“dólokhov, mary ivánovna’s son,” she said in a mysterious
dólokhov made no reply.
dólokhov looked round but did not say anything, nor did the mocking
dólokhov looked at pierre with clear, mirthful, cruel eyes, and that
dólokhov hurriedly interrupted.
dólokhov himself during his convalescence spoke to rostóv in a way no
dólokhov has been degraded to the ranks and bezúkhov’s son sent
dólokhov did not answer the captain; he had been drawn into a hot
dólokhov cut him short, as if to remind him that it was not for him to
dólokhov climbed carefully and slowly through the window and lowered
dólokhov began to deal seriously. oh, how rostóv detested at that
dólokhov, an officer of the semënov regiment, a notorious gambler and
dólokhov, and words of honor?... all nonsense! one might kill and rob
dólokhov and looked sorrowfully at him. denísov, rostóv, and
dólokhov.
dólokhov.
dolls and who was still having lessons.
dolgorúkov was still insisting that the french had retreated and had
dolgorúkov to the emperor.
dolgorúkov, the victor at wischau, was sent with savary to negotiate
dolgorúkov, one of the warmest advocates of an attack, had just
dolgorúkov, looking round at bilíbin with a smile.
dolgorúkov laughed merrily.
dolgorúkov; and though you may not know it, the fact is that now
do it.”
“do i remember nicholas?”
doing!” said the officer and rode off.
doing right. anna mikháylovna nodded approvingly. again pierre fell
doing a little—though i did very little and did it very badly? what
does she bother me?” and she added, turning to véra, “you’ll
doesn’t make a mess of things!”
doesn’t have intrigues nowadays? why, if he was so jealous, as i see
does not quite see it; more particularly as it is he and his corps who
does not produce the slightest stir—a blind man has left it. there are
does not even attempt to hide its artificiality) of a man who is
doctor with a bow and approached them silently and with a look of
doctor who had entered the hall after him (they had met at the last post
doctor’s wife, who was calling him her deliverer, and recalling with
doctor’s wife.
doctor and expecting another for whom they had sent to town, they had
“do come.”
do?”
“dmítri,” said rostóv to his valet on the box, “those lights are
dmítrievna’s deep voice suddenly inquired from the other end of the
dmítrievna produced no less impression by slight exertions—the least
dmítrievna.
dmítri, and several acquaintances, and the countess reread the letter
dmítri, a man of good family who had been brought up in the count’s
divine saviour has left for our guidance here below. let us try to
disturbed.
distrust in bolkónski’s emphatic opinion yet not feeling able fully
distressed that his stout and clumsy body took up so much room and doing
distressed, and breathed painfully, but could not restrain the wild
distraught yet angry expression on the faces of these two men, who
distorted out of all likeness to his former self, and the flourishing of
distinguished him from everyone else in that drawing room.
distinguished dignitary and a swiss who had formerly been tutor at the
distinguished air which inspired respect. princess anna mikháylovna
distinguish a mounted man from one on foot. napoleon, in the blue cloak
distinctness.
distinctly, but as often happens had not understood a word of what they
distinctions which may infringe equality. fly to a brother’s aid
distant, most intimate, memories rose in his imagination: he remembered
distance where no one had been before him. bagratión called to him from
distance that allowed every softly spoken word to be heard, followed
distance, but down the hill before him. “it’s the french!”
distance and puckering the skin above his left eye, “malgré la haute
dissipated life of his son anatole, the son whom they were planning to
dissatisfied with him, and also that at the emperor’s headquarters
dissatisfied, interrupted by another, an unfamiliar voice. from the
dissatisfaction and reproach. “old though he may be, he should not, he
disrespectful manner of the exhausted clerk, the fact that the clerk and
dispute with the french grenadier. they were naturally talking about the
dispute.
“dispositions for an attack on the enemy position behind kobelnitz and
dispositions...”
disposition of the forces, so as to know his bearings should he be sent
disposed to treat the young heir in the most friendly and flattering
displease you. however,” he added rising, “you know my name and
dispatch? you know everything.”
disorganized, i stopped in the road and thought: ‘i’ll let them
disordered. the french cannon did not reach there and the musketry fire
disorder and was retreating upon the kiev grenadiers. prince bagratión
dismounted. he gave the reins to a cossack, took off and handed over his
dismissed from here; therefore, you can stay and go with us wherever our
dismal influence of cannon balls flying from the french batteries
disheveled head from the hot pillow.
disgrace the whole regiment? disgrace the whole regiment because of one
disgrace such as that of ulm, or to utter destruction. but to forestall
discuss so minutely and acutely all the recent european military and
disconcerted. the sight of the discomposure of that old man of the world
discipline, if you allow a subordinate to address you like that!’ it
discipline and zeal in the service. he brought with him into our
disbelieved both the princess’ hints and the letter, but he feared
disastrous was about to happen.
disapprovingly, but in whispers and as a great secret.
disappeared he noticed that the eyes of all in the room turned to him
disagreeable tone to prince hippolyte who was blocking his path.
dirty feather bed on the top of the chest, crumpling her gauzy pink
“directly!”
direction toward the valley and disappearing one after another into
direction of the conflagration. as if urging each other on, the soldiers
directing the march rode backward and forward between the carts. their
directed to—pierre and hélène. prince vasíli mimicked the sobbing
direct descent and ascent to the brook separating us from schön
dip. prince andrew, being always near the commander in chief, closely
diplomats who are esteemed because they have certain negative qualities,
diplomats, evidently had its own interests which had nothing to do with
diplomatist fresh from berlin with the very latest details of the
diplomatist?” asked prince andrew after a momentary silence.
diplomatic discretion tormented him, and he was happy to have in prince
diplomatic career in comparison with pierre’s happiness. the old
din of shouting more incessant. soldiers floundering knee-deep in mud
dinner,” cried several voices. “we’ll take you in hand.”
dinner, but providing it and serving it all up, that’s not their
dinner at the rostóvs’?”
dinner and looked about, blinking and scowling, or, with fixed eyes and
dinner and at other times, when as if tired of everyday life he had felt
dinner all who came “to congratulate.” the countess wished to have
dinner.
dining room where his daughter-in-law, princess mary, and mademoiselle
dim, but definite and in the concise form in which he imagined himself
digested his sufferings alone.
difficulty out of the front door.
difficulty.
difficulty.
difficulty.
difficult to imagine happier people, and that god only knew what would
difficulties had told nicholas that this was all he could let him have
difficult for artillery and cavalry to retire. prince andrew took
different tones. rostóv reined in his horse, whose spirits had risen,
different one from that which he had ridden at the review, and bending
different from themselves and from everyone else, expected great things
different from that of its elders which is often insincere, nicholas
different companies did not get mixed. but our left—which consisted
different, and better, pierre than he had been in petersburg.
differed only in that one had a little mole on her lip which made her
“dieu sait quand reviendra.” hummed the prince out of tune and, with
“dieu sait quand reviendra. go to the dining room.”
“dieu! mon dieu!” muttered anna pávlovna in a terrified whisper.
“‘dieu me la donne, gare à qui la touche!’’ * they say he was
did you come here?”
did this and that, all would be well; and he did what was demanded of
did they not interest him, but he took no notice of them and at once
did that day. but no sooner had natásha finished her barcarolle than
didst thou, and why did the whole world, conceive the idea of the
did still harder work on their own land. he did not know that the priest
did she not show any trace of coquetry, but on the contrary she even
“didn’t i tell you,” she went on, turning reproachfully to
did novosíltsev get? none. the english have not understood and cannot
did not wish to confess.
did not wish to, believe that.
did not want or could not carry away with them. austrian column guides
did not wait to be called. the shapely figure of the fair-haired
did not suit her faded features, always played round her lips expressed,
did not see you.”
did not let it out of her hands. the tutors came, and the nurses, and
did not let him and, on the other, pierre himself feared to begin to
did not interest her—or by a silent look and smile which more palpably
did not, for instance, say to himself: “this man now has influence, i
did not even make him a curtsy. she fixed her eyes on him in amazement,
did not draw closer to sónya, but rather drifted away from her. she was
did not calm her excitement. suddenly her door opened softly and her old
did not, and do not, in the least care about that scoundrel of a clerk
did neither: a look of animosity appeared on his face and the other
did i come here?” he wondered.
did, especially toward evening when he had emptied his second bottle; he
dictated the dispositions in german, and now, much exhausted, he arrived
diamonds, she passed between the men who made way for her, not looking
devoured him with his eyes, drawing himself up obsequiously, and from
devotion to the sovereign, rostóv pictured to himself an enemy or a
devoid of any foundation. prince bagratión turned to the old colonel:
“devil take them!” he muttered, and after listening to the verbal
“devil take ‘em!” he muttered, while his head was still covered by
details of his disaster he understood that half the campaign was lost,
detail! no, my dear fellow, no conditions better than our present ones
detachment no one knew anything of the general position of affairs. they
detachment, moved from the place where it had spent the night, advancing
destruction of the prussian army at jena and auerstädt and the
     destroyed, and you find that a cause for jesting!”
destiny of our adored monarch. he will save europe!”
despite the weakness of age, which had become particularly noticeable
despite the general’s presence were talking loudly and gesticulating.
“despite my great respect for old kutúzov,” he continued, “we
despite count bezúkhov’s enormous wealth, since he had come into an
desperation slammed the door with all her might.
desperate attack just to punish him—rostóv. then he imagined how,
despair, not knowing where to or why he was now riding.
despair at failing in a scripture examination, his borrowing money from
desirous of hiding her adoration for hélène and inclined rather
desire to show his friend as soon as possible that he was now a quite
desire to do good to his neighbor.
descriptive part of the letter. “and what a soul! not a word about
description. the old man began to sing, in the cracked voice of old age:
description of the last petersburg fete she addressed her brother:
descent lit up, and facing it a black knoll that seemed as steep as a
descending the valley. that moment of moral hesitation which decides
derision. “i ought to know the emperor by now, after the times i’ve
“dere has neffer been a gase,” a german doctor was saying to an
depth of his heart. in one place the peasants presented him with bread
depressing and unsolved problem.
depressed, “i shall be only too glad if you relieve me of that young
deprecating expression of a dog when it rapidly but feebly wags its
depraved woman,” he repeated, “but dared not admit it to myself.
depraved ideas of these days. i said so even at the time when everybody
depends on your decision. never mind me!”
departure hélène returned to petersburg, she was received by all her
denísov, with sparkling eyes and ruffled hair, sat at the clavichord
denísov with his voice and mustache, and telyánin and all that affair
denísov, who had settled down by the roadside with a flask and some
denísov were his worst enemy, firmly fixed his eyes directly on his
“denísov! we’re here! he’s asleep,” he added, leaning forward
denísov was shown to the room prepared for him, and the rostóvs all
denísov was looking at her with enraptured eyes.
denísov, to rostóv’s surprise, appeared in the drawing room with
denísov threw both pillows on the floor. the purse was not there.
denísov. “they keep dwagging the wegiment to and fwo all day. if they
denísov’s voice from the next room.
denísov’s short stature not noticeable and he looked the fine fellow
denísov’s new cloak and saddlecloth.
denísov smiled, took out of his sabretache a handkerchief that diffused
denísov’s horse, bedouin, was in debt all round, to his comrades and
denísov’s favorite barcarolle. natásha was preparing to sing.
denísov’s face puckered still more.
denísov screwed up his face and pointing over his shoulder with his
denísov sat gloomily biting his mustache and listening to the
denísov’s a fine fellow. but that’s all nonsense. the chief thing
denísov remained silent and did not move, but occasionally looked with
denísov raised his head, coughed, and made no answer.
denísov nice?” she asked.
“denísov, let him alone, i know who has taken it,” said rostóv,
denísov joined nesvítski.
denísov glanced at rostóv.
denísov gave no answer.
denísov galloped up to him.
denísov frowned and was about to shout some reply but stopped.
denísov first went to the barrier and announced: “as the
“denísov, don’t make fun of it!” cried rostóv. “it is such a
denísov, denísov! we’re almost there!”
denísov bent over her hand and she heard strange sounds she did not
denísov began to laugh.
denísov, and now moscow memories—and he again hurriedly opened his
denísov also came back and stayed with them. the first half of the
denísov?”
denísov.
    * denísov.
“demosthenes, i know thee by the pebble thou secretest in thy golden
demand satisfaction of his regimental commander?”
demanded that he should submit. feeling himself in their power, he
demanded.
delivers its teaching not in words only but also by other means, which
(delivered by the french alone) was still to be heard from numerous
delight. so you still love me, my romantic julie? separation, of which
delight of frenzy. he flung down the slab, broke it, and swooping
delightful to see.”
“delightful!” said bolkónski. “but i have come to you, prince,
delicate dark down was just perceptible, was too short for her teeth,
deliberately spoken word. it was evident that kutúzov himself listened
deliberately so that everyone could hear:
delay and advised waiting for something else before advancing had been
dejection and hopelessness)—at any rate, pierre longed with his whole
definite idea of her, he turned away and addressed michael ivánovich.
defile through narrow village streets when we are marching against the
deferential young man who had entered. “bring me...” he reflected
defense of vienna was no longer to be thought of. instead of an
defense—as much as to say: ‘heaven is with us, but heaven help you
defending us—doing it very badly, i think, but still he is defending
defective commissariat, the treachery of the pole przebyszéwski and of
defection, ran at a trot, panting to catch up with his company. a cannon
defeat, there were many circumstances confirming the unfavorable rumors
defeated. a week after the gazette report of the battle of austerlitz
deep wrinkles would crease his cheeks. his small, deep-set eyes always
deeply.
deepest where the land lies lowest.
deeds, and while dying he expressed the love his actions had proved.
declined: i have my daughters to consider.”
declares in ze manifessto zat he cannot fiew wiz indifference ze danger
declared, was extraordinary and had achieved miracles of valor. the
declared that he will leave it to the french people themselves to choose
decide, my dear, good, gentle marie, whom i have always loved as a
decided to send the letters and money by the grand duke’s courier to
decided to play until that score reached forty-three thousand. he
decided that day, but that they also knew what she thought about it. she
decided now or never. she lowered her eyes so as not to see the gaze
decidedly lost bearings, you know that a letter was received from him
de châle, but at this last ball only the écossaise, the anglaise, and
decently here,” continued telyánin. “now then, let me have it.”
december, nothing was said about the war and the last battle, as
deceived you. let us go to mamma.”
deceitful german, whom he would not only kill with pleasure but whom
de beaucoup de mérite), a newly appointed maid of honor and her mother,
death,” thought bolkónski.
death’s head. the stranger sat without stirring, either resting or, as
death, is here above me and around... another instant and i shall never
dear. we will see how tarás distinguishes himself today. he says count
dear, there’s friendship for you,” he repeated. “he’s joining
dear sir—took on yourself responsibility for the guidance of a young
“dear princess, i beg and implore you, have some pity on him! je vous
“dear me! then what are you up to now?”
“dear me!” said rostóv.
“dear me!” said his father, who was in a specially good humor. “i
dear, merry child. i have grown so fond of her.”
“dear me, how you have changed!”
“dear me, can i have forgotten? no, i remember thinking that you kept
dear invalid?” said she, as though unaware of the cold offensive look
dear general, i am engaged with rice and cutlets, look after military
dear fellow!” and for some unknown reason tears suddenly filled his
“dearest,” said the little princess after breakfast on the morning
“dearest, i’m afraid this morning’s fruschtique *—as fóka the
‘dearest foe! flower of the austrian army, hero of the turkish wars!
“dearest... and me!”
“dear doctor,” said she, “this young man is the count’s son. is
“dear, dear! just look at her!” exclaimed the countess as she
“dear, dear! but still tell him to come to the club—it will all blow
“dear countess, what an age... she has been laid up, poor child ...
dear boy,” and he drew pierre’s arm downwards, “it is simply a
dear and precious friend, your letter of the 13th has given me great
dear and precious friend, how terrible and frightful a thing is
dead or wounded horses and harnessing fresh ones, and shouting in his
dead. all that he saw and heard seemed to confirm this terror.
day we are keeping. but mind you come to dinner or i shall be offended,
day was mapped out, the prince rested and the princess played the
day until then, but he could no longer do it. he could not, any more
days with her, asked her to sleep in her room, and often talked with her
days was still thin—moved. his gleaming eyes were fixed intently on
days’ march and the enemy’s outposts after a brief interchange
day,” said the visitor. “what a charming child,” she added,
days.”
day... natásha, what have i done to deserve it?...”
day in moscow. all denísov’s moscow friends gave him a farewell
day he is sensible, well educated, and good-natured, and the next he’s
day he had lost. he was happy as a lover when the longed-for moment of
day before, he wished to do what the young man wanted. having been sent
daughter were having one not less important. natásha came running to
daughter. she lowered her head and was ready to burst into tears.
daughter’s happiness.
daughter’s face that it was only mischief, she shook a finger at her
daughter of prince vasíli, but visualized her whole body only veiled
    * daughter of matthew.
daughter.)—“my dear boy... lëlya... i am very pleased.” (his
daughter is so young, and i thought that, as my son’s friend, you
daughter-in-law, “but she need not make a fool of herself, she’s
daughter got up to go and the two young men rose to let them pass.
daughter, entered the drawing room, their dresses rustling.
daughter, but for a minister! for me, there are no ministers!”
daughter, and while he laughed the expression on his face clearly said:
daughter and placing an arm on the back of the chair on which she sat,
daughter.
daughter!”
dashing young hussar!
darted in and stopped short in the middle of the room. it was evident
darted forward at every word or gesture of the commander in chief,
“darling denísov!” screamed natásha, beside herself with rapture,
dark... steady!” he cried to his fidgeting horse.
darkness. “why not?... it might easily happen,” thought rostóv,
darkness, was suddenly lit up by a new brightness, full of significance.
darkness, the man paused, then moved with cautious steps toward the
dark hairs were already showing on his upper lip, and his whole face
dark-haired man. this was the celebrated petersburg doctor, lorrain.
dark corner. and this someone was he—the devil—and he was also this
dark and the glow of two conflagrations was the more conspicuous. the
daren’t say so. it will be as i said at the beginning of the campaign,
dared to treat márya dmítrievna in this fashion.
dared complain, i who am deprived of all who are dear to me? ah, if
danube, marching on us, you, and your lines of communication.”
danube covered with pine forests, with a mystic background of green
dangers. during these wanderings, pierre noticed that he was spoken
dangerous.
danger. “i am convinced that we russians must die or conquer,” he
dancing master) gave for his pupils during the holidays.
dancers do, natásha, rising energetically from her heels to her toes,
dancer, but smiling as only happy girls of fifteen can smile. when
dancer, and one of the best matches in the city.
dance) began to sound, all the doorways of the ballroom were suddenly
damned fool!” cried denísov, not pronouncing his r’s. “such ill
d’affaires.
cynically dólokhov had praised his wife’s beauty to him and from that
cut!”
curving her arms, natásha held out her skirts as dancers do, ran back
curtain flapping and blew out the candle with its chill, snowy draft.
curtain aside and for some time his frightened, restless eyes could not
current of his thoughts, “that anatole is costing me forty thousand
curly head to her knees and made the whole room ring with her laughter.
curious to know what was going to happen and what would be revealed to
curious embarrassment among some of those present. sónya, dólokhov,
cup of vodka for the men from me,” he added so that the soldiers
cupboards, and little tables. the quilt of a high, white feather bed was
cunning smile, as if flattered at being made the subject of zherkóv’s
cry. prince andrew evidently felt ill at ease, but to the two women
cry or to laugh. prince andrew shrugged his shoulders and frowned, as
crying. sónya tried to lift her head to answer but could not, and
crying.
cry. “i need five hundred rubles, and have only one twenty-five-ruble
crush the contemptible detachment that stood before him.
crushed, but angry and working unnaturally, she saw that hanging over
crowd, they had got wedged in at the approach to the dam and, jammed in
crowd of soldiers. “it can’t be an attack, for they are not moving;
crowding around the dams and banks of the ponds near the village of
crowd had to wait.
crowded together close to his wheels and his horses. “what a fellow!
crowded round a pockmarked, broad-shouldered sergeant major who, tilting
cross the lech, we can cross the danube, throw ourselves on his line
cross it and ride over the black field up the hillside. to keep to the
crossing a road they descended a steep incline and saw several men
crossed the road, and began riding up the hill at a gallop toward the
crossed the ballroom, pointing to natásha.
crossed one on the other on her breast, and to him, too, her face seemed
crossed himself and kissed the icon. there was a look of tenderness, for
criticism and was about to reply, when the expected footsteps were heard
critical moment the courier who carried the news of our victory at
crimson float on the surface of that milky sea of mist. the whole french
criminal,” came into pierre’s head, “and from their point of
cried her eyes out,” she said, growing more and more lively.
cried at each shot: “fine! that’s good! look at it... grand!” the
“crew, to your guns!” commanded the officer.
cream.”
creaks or makes more noise than it should, and hastens to check the
creaking of her corset as she moved. he did not see her marble beauty
crackling of wood fires near and afar, merged into one tremulous rumble.
crack and there was a glimpse of something blue, of ribbons, black hair,
coyness and reserve of manner, she reminded one of a pretty, half-grown
cowshed nor rostóv back with his platoon from foraging for hay had any
“cover yourself!” even denísov cried to his adversary.
cover of the small box, and assumed his usual tranquil and impenetrable
covered with melting snow, the frost having begun to break up during the
covered this movement of the transport and of the whole army, had to
covered his eyes with his hand and pressed von toll’s hand.
     * cousinhood is a dangerous neighborhood.
“cousinage—dangereux voisinage,” * she added.
courts only strengthened his desire to belong to that higher world.
courtierlike quickness and tact habitual to her, anna pávlovna
course.” perhaps he did not really think this when he met women—even
course of events in the forthcoming action in broad outline. he
courage, so he drew himself up and looked around him merrily; then it
courage. next he thought that his enemy would send the squadron on a
courage, my angel.” she kissed lise and was about to leave the room.
courage had it not been that just then they heard the rattle of musketry
“courage, courage, my friend! he has asked to see you. that is
   courage conquest guarantees;
courage, but she looked straight into his handsome face as it came near
courage and endurance—acknowledged even by the enemy—with which the
courage. 6. generosity. 7. the love of death.
couple of words with him, pierre felt unable to disappoint him.
couple. in the intervals of the dance the count, breathing deeply, waved
count,” yet ashamed to call him “father.”
count, with playful ceremony somewhat in ballet style, offered his
count tolstóy, who had ridden out to the battlefield with others in
count’s visitors settled themselves, some in the two drawing rooms,
count’s services, his request would be granted?...”
count’s niece, entered with a cold, stern face. the length of her
“count...” said telyánin drawing nearer to him.
count,” said berg, lighting his pipe and emitting rings of smoke.
countryside—“see, our infantrymen have already got there. look there
countrymen. thanks for the fire—we’ll return it with interest,”
country do we get any rest? theatricals, hunting, and heaven knows what
“count rostóv asks you to come to dinner today,” said he, after a
“count rostóv.”
count rostopchín, valúev, and narýshkin. rostopchín was describing
count never be able to find out whether all measures had been taken for
count, money and all things necessary for the uniform and equipment
count markóv? count markóv was the only man who knew how to handle
count markóv, and prince vyázemski—did not show themselves at the
“count lichtenfels was here this morning,” bilíbin continued,
count is very fond of pierre, looked after his education, and wrote to
“count ilyá rostóv’s son?” asked dolgorúkov.
count ilyá rostóv separately, as the organizer of the banquet. at that
count ilyá rostóv, hurried and preoccupied, went about in his soft
count. he has, no doubt, forgotten it and will wish to destroy it.
countess with a gentle smile, looking at borís and went on, evidently
countess, who sat holding in one hand the snuffbox with its portrait and
countess” to have a rest, but remembering something else of
“countess...” said denísov, with downcast eyes and a guilty face.
countess rostóva, with her daughters and a large number of guests, was
countess rostóva’s carriage in which they were seated drove over the
“countess natásha,” answered denísov.
countess. “i have never seen a handsomer man.”
“countess, i have done w’ong,” denísov went on in an unsteady
countess’ house.
countess. her son’s growth toward manhood, at each of its stages,
countess had not yet come. but now steps were heard at the door, steps
countess’ gigantic footman in his bass voice, entering the drawing
“countess apráksina, poor thing, has lost her husband and she has
countess.
countermarches, things of which i understand nothing; and the day
counterattack. if they attack our center we, having the center battery
countenances became calm; soldiers and officers greeted him gaily, grew
countenance bonaparte, and to cause me, and us in general, annoyance and
countenance.
“count!... don’t ruin a young fellow... here is this wretched money,
“count! count!” shouted berg who ran up from the other side as eager
count coming out from the dining hall into the anteroom, and he added:
count bezúkhov’s distress some fifteen times.
count bezúkhov he did not let go his hold of the lad. he had the air of
count, and having kissed his wife’s hand he went back to his study.
count against him, he nevertheless on the day of his arrival went to
count.
councilor of state, and insisted on the young man accompanying him to
council, he remained in the room.
could reach, there were the rattle of wheels, the creaking of carts
could not think of it without tears, and did not know which had behaved
could not scream like that—came from the bedroom. prince andrew ran to
could not say with certainty whether the attack had been repulsed or his
could not reply.
could not remember what it was that people say. he looked at her face.
could not possibly be, and so did not deliver the order.
could not move it. he smashed a pane.
could not help seeing these people, took any notice of them. “it seems
could not break away from her, and that though it would be a terrible
could not bear her look but turned away with a sob.
could no longer be averted but was taking its course independently of
could hear the footstep of someone in thick felt boots, and a voice that
could hear. “i thank you all! god be praised!” and he rode past that
could have the effrontery to continue firing from four quite undefended
could have been devised. this combination of austrian precision with
could get more rewards by doing nothing on the staff, and had succeeded
could disclose it to me.”
could clearly distinguish their bandoliers, red epaulets, and even their
could be seen, and in three places to left and right the french troops
could be heard. it was there prince andrew thought the fight would
could be heard above the three hundred others. he nearly wept. “to the
could be felt, but the nearer prince andrew came to the french lines the
could be discerned.
coughing of the musicians were heard from the gallery.
coughed, swallowed, and said in french that she was very pleased to see
cough.
cost correct, or remedy, the mistake if he had made one, so that he,
“cossack!” she said threateningly.
cossack scouts were moving. suddenly on the road at the top of the high
cossacks and then the first and second squadrons of hussars and infantry
corridor to the cabinet where the minister of war was at work. the
correct, others that it was not, and explained the false rumor that had
correct. as soon as bonaparte (who was at schönbrunn, sixteen miles
correct.
corner of his card and, instead of the six thousand he had intended,
cords on his coat and took a card with that number and tried staking the
coquettish manner in which she spoke to other men, “the vicomte has
cooked before we reach our quarters.”
cook calls it—has disagreed with me.”
convoy officer, who said rapidly: “we must halt here: the emperor
convey....”
conversation with her, when anna pávlovna called him away on the
conversation—“i often think how unfairly sometimes the joys of life
conversation in french.
conversation, gave no reply.
conversation, evidently with no wish to take part in it. he answered the
conversation but think it necessary to move about and talk, in order
conversation began prince andrew was struck by the fact that the emperor
conversation, and though anna pávlovna felt sure he would say something
conversation always related entirely to himself; he would remain calm
conversation.
conversation.
conventional things with no definite meaning, especially if
conveniently to keep them under observation, brought them into the
convalescence. dólokhov lay ill at his mother’s who loved him
contrasted with his flattering words, “on the contrary, your
contrary. we wanted liberty, but buonaparte has destroyed it.”
contrary to bilíbin’s forecast the news he had brought was joyfully
contrary one must try to make one’s life as pleasant as possible.
continuous, varied, and orderly activity. the motion of the small foot
continue their flight? despite his desperate shouts that used to seem
continued, with that gay brotherly cordiality which goodhearted young
continued, “we owe today’s success chiefly to the action of that
continued to shout.
continued to explain how by exchanging into the guards he had already
continued the vicomte. “i pity the poor husband, that little officer
continued—remembering dólokhov’s conversation with kutúzov and his
continued prince vasíli, returning to his theme, apparently not
continued. “one would think that as an artillery officer you would set
continued his work.
continued. during this interval pierre noticed that prince vasíli
continually receiving many petitioners one after another.
continually he moved on. the soldiers squeezed themselves to make way
continually glanced at prince andrew; prince andrew rubbed his forehead
continually driving round or coming upon wounded men, was out of range
continually changing from french to russian.
continually, bringing visitors to the countess rostóva’s big house on
continually and rapidly touching her rosy nether lip when necessary
    contents
contention.
contented and happy with him. i only wish you were all as happy as i
contemptuous smile, evidently prepared beforehand to meet all objections
contemptuous look that showed itself on his face.
contemplated between anatole and the little princess’ sister-in-law.
containing lessons in geometry written by himself and drew up a chair
consulting his sergeant major, zakharchénko, for whom he had great
consultations were detached from real affairs and did not link up with
consultations very valuable for the proprietor and troublesome to
constantly considered it a duty to assure pierre that he was greatly
constant composure and complacency and lack of all interests or desires,
consolation? what evil and error are there in it, if people were dying
consolation for our defeat by the memory of former victories; and the
consider yourself incapable and your life a spoiled life. you have
consider, prince andrew. two... frederick and suvórov; moreau!...
“consider my position, peter nikoláevich. were i in the cavalry i
consider it a sacred duty to fulfill that person’s wishes. do you wish
considered worthy to hear it had to come to the countess, for she
considered myself injured, and louis xvi was executed because they
considered it proper to show an interest in the general conversation by
considered it his duty to visit him and waited in the lofty antechamber
considered important.
considered him conceited, cold, and disagreeable. but among these people
considered him a criminal, and a year later they executed those who
considered an adept at french.
consider characteristic of the country—rumors of war are heard
considerable pause which made pierre feel uncomfortable.
conservatory to the place among the tubs where she had been hiding.
conservatory. there she paused and stood listening to the conversation
conservatory and pantry into the large marble dining hall, where tables
conservatories and the beauty of a flower that had just opened, and
conscious that another line of thought had sprung up, and while thinking
conscious of this unseen line, and the question whether they would cross
conscious of the warmth of her body, the scent of perfume, and the
consciousness that something great and mysterious was being accomplished
conscientiously studied the dispositions and the unfamiliar locality. he
conscience that god has implanted in our souls.”
   conquest’s joyful thunder waken,
connections... well, then, you just...”
connected in his memory with prince andrew.
“connaissez-vous le proverbe:* ‘jerome, jerome, do not roam, but
conjecture, but the colonel did not once glance at rostóv, and looked
congratulations and greetings from acquaintances that met him on all
confusion what did or did not happen?
confusion and fear that showed itself on prince vasíli’s face.
confusing their minds by dwelling on mystical books that merely awaken
confused when she saw prince andrew. he covered his face with his hands
confused him still more. he stood before bagratión with his lower
confused and ever-increasing crowds were running back to where five
confronted one another as before.
“confound you and your karl ivánich!” he took the glass with the
“confound him, he’s a fool!” said rostóv.
conform to them and follow them, and let us be persuaded that the less
conform. however painful it may be to me, should the almighty lay
confirmed in this conclusion by the fact that dólokhov left immediately
confirmed by pierre’s rupture with his wife, was the talk of society.
confidence the personality of the freemason inspired in him and his own
confidence,” said she, repeating the mistake of so many parents who
confidence, flatter him, become intimate with him, and finally make his
confidence, and love as i have for you. then i am young. mamma does
confession; he felt himself in the presence of one socially a complete
confession, communion was administered to the dying man, preparations
confess and ask for money he had no right to after giving his word of
condition! it’s very hard.”
condition, and immediately after that informed them that she had left
condition.
conclude our campaign and we can return to winter quarters, where fresh
concluded, conscious—as were others—after the words were uttered
concerning which no one could be at ease. it was the state of the
concerned with, or he wanted to give the russian special messenger that
concerned with a thought that always occupied her: “now you see if i
concentration on some one thought.
concentration of fighting at one point, and the hesitation of all the
concentrate. “there we shall encounter difficulties, and there,”
conceive a future life...”
conceit prevents your apologizing, and you wish to make the whole
comrades’ impression. every face, from denísov’s to that of the
comrade nesvítski, a tall staff officer, extremely stout, with a
comrade berg’s best wishes for success, rode to olmütz to see
composure, waiting for a display of the eccentricities his father had
composure, “now there’s this recruiting. my father is chief in
composed and printed in the hero’s honor. bagratión, on seeing the
comply. anna pávlovna arranged a group round him, inviting everyone to
completely altered. he was not rich, but would spend his last groat to
completed.
compared to the lofty, equitable, and kindly sky which he had seen and
company, your honor. i don’t know where... such bad luck!”
company, which alone had maintained its order in the wood and, having
company’s baggage wagon, piled high, leather covered, and hemmed in on
company commanders calculated and reckoned, and by morning the
company and overtook the next one.
companion, dólokhov had come straight to his house, and pierre had put
companies, crowds of whom set off to the neighboring villages, or
common sense and frank plainness of speech. márya dmítrievna was known
committed a reverse act of impoliteness. first he had left a lady before
commit murder he had restored it to the rightful king, i should have
commit crime, die, or perform deeds of highest heroism, and so he could
commissariat, and the regiment had marched some seven hundred miles.
commiseration on rostóv, who saw that túshin with his whole heart
commentaries), and resting on his elbow, began reading it in the middle.
commence the action, and wishing to avert responsibility from himself,
comme il faut, that’s a different matter; but the kurágins’ set of
comme cet individu dont vous avez fait un ami, mais pas pour vous, pas
command to the general next in seniority, count buxhöwden, having sent
command. “sergeants major!... how soon will he be here?” he asked
command of the third district, and my only way of avoiding active
command of the infantry went toward his horse with jerky steps, and
commanding both sides of the danube, so that should the enemy not
commander’s will, owing to the tact bagratión showed, his presence
commander started and bent forward, the hussar started and bent forward
commander’s back and mimicked his every movement. each time the
commanders are: herr general wimpfen, le comte de langeron, le prince de
commanders, and with a consciousness of being too late spreading through
commanders. and then that happy moment, that toulon for which he had
“commander of the third company wanted by the general!... commander to
commander of the regiment in the hollow and news that immense masses
commander in chief would otherwise be dissatisfied. on hearing this the
commander in chief’s suite. he was in a state of suppressed excitement
commander in chief’s regarding the regiment. behind kutúzov, at a
“commander in chief kutúzov?” said the newly arrived general
commander in chief here, and if all is lost it is for me to perish with
commander in chief. he interrupted him, talked rapidly and indistinctly,
commander in chief. bagratión knew that as the distance between the two
commander in chief and of his own luggage. very sinister reports of the
commander in chief.
commander, higher than and different from the others, prince andrew came
commander, but now that the commander in chief addressed him he drew
commander, awaiting the word of command. a second and a third cannon
commander among them! hm!...”
coming to us of their own accord,” incautiously remarked the little
coming out of kutúzov’s room into the waiting room with the papers in
coming from the study. the prince walked in quickly and jauntily as was
“coming, friend.”
coming for me to take me there.”
coming closer to pierre. “in token of generosity i ask you to give me
coming. and nicholas, who had vainly suffered all the dread that
coming action from dolgorúkov. he felt that kutúzov was upset
comfortably.
“come, what’s the matter, old fellow?” said nesvítski trying to
come, were all there at the appointed time.
come up to him.
come up. in that case the dragoons could successfully make a flank
“come, that’s right, count!” cried the staff captain, turning
comes from that! even then i felt it,” he thought. “i felt then that
“come over here, hélène, dear,” said anna pávlovna to the
“come on then,” cried pierre. “come on!... and we’ll take bruin
come on and will meet them with the fire of the whole battalion’—and
“come now! you with all your forces fall on the unfortunate mortier
“come now, what about your roi de prusse?”
“come now, just this one more little card!”
“come now, deal!” exclaimed rostóv.
“come nearer, come nearer, friend! i used to be the only one to tell
“come, my dear anna mikháylovna, let catiche do as she pleases. you
“come, let’s argue then,” said prince andrew, “you talk of
“come later.” and she went in, closing the door behind her.
“come, i will go with you. try to weep, nothing gives such relief as
come into the hall. prince hippolyte stood close to the pretty, pregnant
come in a moment. petrúshka!” he called to his valet: “come here,
“come if you need anything. one can at least be of use on the
come. he was alone now, except for a soldier who was sitting naked at
come... he told me himself... but still i should not cry,” and she
“come here, wostóv. let’s dwink to dwown our gwief!” shouted
“come here,” said rostóv, catching hold of telyánin’s arm and
“come, dear princess,” said mademoiselle bourienne, “just one more
“come along, our matvévna!” he said to himself. “matvévna” *
“come along!”
columns, with a high silk-curtained mahogany bedstead on one side and
columns, their bayonets glittering, were moving continuously in one
column, milorádovich’s, the one that was to take the place of
column marches... the third column marches...” and so on, read
column coming up to meet the Ápsherons.
column advanced into action.
colonel was called bogdánich) “shuts you up.”
colonel’s athletic back, his nape covered with light hair, and his red
colonel of hussars with the same order. after him the stout nesvítski
colonel of hussars who, growing more and more flushed, ate and drank so
colonel of forty to whom denísov had introduced him.
“colonel,” interrupted the officer of the suite, “you must be
“colonel,” he said, addressing rostóv’s enemy with an air of
collar and cap, went out for his usual walk. it had snowed the day
collapsed so that i don’t live at all—everything seems hateful to
coiffure, mademoiselle bourienne’s and anatole’s smiles, and the
code, but under this unwritten law. he felt now that merely by having
cock, but the elder members glanced severely at the wit, making him
coat, the traveler sat down on the sofa, leaned back his big head with
coats.
coat of arms on the table. he explained this to her with as much gravity
coachmen and footmen, who, with loud shouts, dragged his sleighs up to
coachman’s, was teasing kutúzov’s old cook whom prince andrew knew,
clutched the crupper of his saddle and, spurring his horse, galloped to
club, but met in private houses in intimate circles, and the
clouds gliding slowly across it. “how quiet, peaceful, and solemn; not
cloudless, northern, summer night. pierre took an open cab intending
clouded his mother’s face, and he smiled slightly.
cloth, which contrasted with the others. “what have you been after?
cloths.
close, was gazing with astonishment at the angry face of the princess
close to her; the red patches on her face came and went, and it was
close to her, of his breath and the smell of him, and could think only
close to her, began to whisper something.
close that the expression of his face could be seen. and the excited,
closer together and a report spread that they were ordered to halt:
closer!” she whispered.
closed his eyes, silently let mack enter his room before him, and closed
close-cropped hair, spectacles, the light-colored breeches fashionable
close by, who heard him muttering.
clock. one wheel slowly moved, another was set in motion, and a third,
cloak looking timidly at me,” he thought. “and what does she
cloak, he asked whether they wanted the count or the princesses, and,
cloak and felt boots, he went to the little princess’ apartment.
clinking of spurs were heard at the door, and the young count, handsome,
climb out of the window.
clever with véra,” said the count. “well, what of that? she’s
clerk. “the kiev grenadiers, podolian...”
clenching his small hand and striking the table with it, “and what
clear upright figures; he emptied the glass of warm champagne that was
clearness, and charm that it seemed as if it were all a lost and
clearly worded the day before, namely, that the commander in chief
clear, insolent eyes in the general’s face.
clear.
clean shirt on the feather bed with its warmed and fragrant pillows, he
cleaned pairs with spurs had just been placed by the wall. the servants
clean, and in cloth covers carefully tied with tapes.
clavichord was. “it’s no use your going to the commander in chief.
clavichord and harp. julie by general request played first. after she
clavichord.
clattering. these men pressed close to the wall to let pierre and anna
clanking his spurs, whirled rapidly round, and, striking his left heel
cities wondered at her, laughed privately at her rudenesses, and told
circumstantially and with evident satisfaction.
circumstances i may be placed. but if you want to know the truth... if
circumstances, he nevertheless delivered the definite order that the
circumstances and persons he met. of these plans he had not merely one
christian...”
“christ be with you!” kutúzov repeated and went toward his
chose and placed cards, and watched those broad-boned agile hands in the
chorus.”
choose. i give you freedom. only remember that your life’s happiness
choked him, and leaning his elbows on the window sill he began to cry,
choice has fallen. i don’t know what you will think of it, but
child’s little chair while, frowning and with trembling hands, he
children. the german tutor was trying to remember all the dishes, wines,
children,” she said, in her loud, full-toned voice which drowned all
children are the bane of my life. it is the cross i have to bear. that
childlike way through his spectacles.
childlike smile which had not once appeared on his face since he left
childish bare shoulders which after her run heaved and shook her
child in a toyshop, did not know which way to look, afraid of missing
childhood; that same julie karágina who had been at the rostóvs’
childhood and lived for years at a time. the guards had already left
childhood.
childhood.
child. “but no, it is impossible, i am too ugly,” she thought.
chief, your excellency?” said rostóv, with his hand to his cap.
chief steward wrote every year telling him of fires and bad harvests,
chief’s room.
chief’s and with the exception of prince bagratión, who declined to
chief, and our first foe, buxhöwden, is vanquished; we can now turn
chest to back than across the shoulders. he had on a brand-new uniform
chessmen with his delicate white fingers while awaiting berg’s move,
cheerful were the troops. the greatest disorder and depression had been
checked handkerchief) to illustrate the theory that all men are equals,
chattering voices had reached her from the corridor, went into princess
chasseurs.... they won’t let us pass, we are left behind and have lost
chasseurs must hold their position till reserves from the center
chasseur regiment and in the lines of the kiev grenadiers—fine fellows
“charming!” whispered the little princess, sticking the needle into
charming that only a fool would renounce such happiness.”
“charming!” said anna pávlovna with an inquiring glance at the
charming girls. every young man who came to the house—seeing those
charming age when a girl is no longer a child, though the child is not
charitable to my poor aunt who adores you. go and keep her company for
“charge!” shouted by an officer who was urging his thoroughbred to
character set encoding: utf-8
characteristically noble wrinkles of his handsome, ruddy face. he lay
character, but more so recently, since in the new reigns of paul and
    chapter xxxviii
    chapter xxxvii
    chapter xxxvi
    chapter xxxv
    chapter xxxix
    chapter xxxiv
    chapter xxxiv
    chapter xxxiii
    chapter xxxiii
    chapter xxxii
    chapter xxxii
    chapter xxxi
    chapter xxxi
    chapter xxx
    chapter xxx
chapter xxviii
    chapter xxviii
    chapter xxviii
    chapter xxviii
chapter xxvii
    chapter xxvii
    chapter xxvii
    chapter xxvii
chapter xxvi
    chapter xxvi
    chapter xxvi
    chapter xxvi
    chapter xxvi
chapter xxv
    chapter xxv
    chapter xxv
    chapter xxv
    chapter xxv
    chapter xxix
    chapter xxix
chapter xxiv
    chapter xxiv
    chapter xxiv
    chapter xxiv
    chapter xxiv
chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiii
chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
chapter xxi
chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
chapter xx
chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
chapter xviii
chapter xviii
chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
chapter xvii
chapter xvii
chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
chapter xvi
chapter xvi
chapter xvi
chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
chapter xv
chapter xv
chapter xv
chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
chapter xix
chapter xix
chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
chapter xiv
chapter xiv
chapter xiv
chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
chapter xiii
chapter xiii
chapter xiii
chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
chapter xii
chapter xii
chapter xii
chapter xii
chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
chapter xi
chapter xi
chapter xi
chapter xi
chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
chapter x
chapter x
chapter x
chapter x
chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
chapter viii
chapter viii
chapter viii
chapter viii
chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
chapter vii
chapter vii
chapter vii
chapter vii
chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
chapter vi
chapter vi
chapter vi
chapter vi
chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
chapter v
chapter v
chapter v
chapter v
chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
chapter ix
chapter ix
chapter ix
chapter ix
chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
chapter iv
chapter iv
chapter iv
chapter iv
chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
chapter iii
chapter iii
chapter iii
chapter iii
chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
chapter ii
chapter ii
chapter ii
chapter ii
chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
chapter i
chapter i
chapter i
chapter i
chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
channel. i think the expedition is quite feasible. if only villeneuve
changing unconsciously from russian to french as he went on—to explain
changing the expression of her eyes. “i am a woman, and you think we
changing his tone or attitude, “it must seem to you that everyone is
change in the expression of his fixed eyes, watched the regimental
changed!... where are the candles?... tea!...”
changed: her eyes became fixed, and then a shiver passed down her broad
chance of delay and flight when the longed-for moment comes and he is
chance, letting the seven be dealt to the right rather than to the left,
championship of the doctor’s wife in her queer trap might expose him
chair, wrapped in a powdering mantle, entrusting his head to tíkhon.
chair regardless of her governess’ remarks. after dinner, she rushed
chair, he drew up with a click of his spurs and bowed to her, natásha
chair and pacing up and down the room followed by tíkhon, who ran after
chair, and began deliberately with a smile:
“cette armée russe que l’or de l’angleterre a transportée des
certain. there’s lise, married to andrew—a better husband one would
certain, nothing at all except the unimportance of everything i
certainly should not, speak like that,” their glances seemed to say.
certainly is communicated very surely, and flows rapidly, imperceptibly,
“certainly he must be moved onto the bed; here it will be
“certainly; but about kutúzov, i don’t promise.”
ceremonious welcomes (which he knew pierre would not like), but for just
“cependant, mon cher,” he remarked, examining his nails from a
center, the reserves, and bagratión’s right flank had not yet moved,
center of the table, prince vasíli attracted everybody’s attention.
center, and secondly, to withdraw the cavalry to the other side of the
censured, should not be held to blame.
censure, but asked him not to be too hard on the poor old man. “what
celebrating awards they had received for the campaign, and made
cavalry was brought in, convoyed by a sótnya of cossacks. evidently the
cavalry in front, behind it the artillery, and behind that again the
cavalry and here he noticed a stir and signs of preparation for battle;
cautious movements of those who crowded round the invalid chair that
cause of the confusion, turned away with indifference, as if to say,
caught up the object of contention and ran into the bedroom. the eldest
catiche,” * muttered the prince, seating himself wearily on the chair
“catiche has had tea served in the small drawing room,” said prince
catherine’s day, count bezúkhov, and about his illegitimate son
catherine’s court, count bezúkhov.
     *catherine.
cathedral, and its bridge, on both sides of which streamed jostling
catching the curtain of the cot. each made the other a warning gesture
catching and their sabers clattering.
“catch hold of my arm or you’ll drop him!” he heard one of the
catches it and obeying the impulse that wheel begins to creak and joins
casket for mamma’s name day and then going home. i was so happy, so
cases only one goes wrong, but it is her fancy and mine. they have been
casement. the cold wind flapped the ends of her kerchief and her loose
cart, shouting and scolding a soldier with coarse abuse. in each of
carts, guns, artillery, and again baggage wagons and vehicles of all
carry them out, so he takes a regiment, a division—stipulates that no
carry out the count’s wishes, seeing clearly that not only would the
carrying her burden so lightly. old men and dull dispirited young ones
carry him to the dressing station.”
“carrot ices.”
carried the whole length of the table.
carried the sovereign at reviews in russia bore him also here on the
carried the sick man dispersed. anna mikháylovna touched pierre’s
carried away by passion. oh, only my poor mother...”
carriage, moved forward and, not noticing the general, looked out
carriage, her husband was adjusting his saber; prince hippolyte, under
carriage?” he asked his mother with a smile.
carriage. “get in with me,” said he to bolkónski.
carriage at full speed about an hour before along that very road and
carriage, and the solitude of the road, all had a gladdening effect on
carriage and rode up to dólokhov.
care, this was a mere stranger. glancing, however, at borís, he saw
carelessly holding in his stallion that was neighing and pawing the
carefully wrote twenty-one.
carefully stretching his neck so as not to touch the quilt, followed her
cared about; anna pávlovna observed these greetings with mournful and
care about them in so far as they are harmful or useful. and most of
cards and supper were over, but the visitors had not yet dispersed.
card, putting a small stake on it, and beginning to play.
cardinal virtues in her gave her lessons in algebra and geometry
card game he was very fond of, was that of listener, especially when he
carabineers.
cap, who had come sailing in from another room as soon as the guests
captured by the french because the enemy could not surmise that anyone
captain von toll chanced to ride to the same spot, and seeing the
captain up and down as he came up panting, slackening his pace as he
“captain túshin’s, your excellency!” shouted the red-haired,
captain, his nose growing redder as he gave a smile which showed where
“captain, for god’s sake! i’ve hurt my arm,” he said timidly.
captain and his drawn-in stomach, and mimicked his expression and pose
captain,” and he turned to a thin, dirty little artillery officer who
capitals, he still continued to live in the country, remarking that
“capital!” said prince hippolyte in english, and began slapping his
cap and smoothing his hair wet with perspiration with his plump hand,
capable of receiving it.
“can you imagine it?” and he began describing how the guards, having
can you fancy the figure he cut?...”
can without hurting others.”
can, with all the pleasures of life here. if we were in vienna it would
canvas and, scarcely able to refrain from laughing, stooped as if trying
can’t understand. i was there all the time giving orders and had only
can’t get them from anyone else. he’s not there himself, so you’ll
can’t, do what you will! how can i go and apologize like a little boy
can’t be! only to get past them quicker, quicker!”
can’t be done. and besides, if she tells mamma” (sónya looked upon
can’t bear those old men! eh?”
can say all this there,” remarked dolgorúkov.
can rush off alone in a carriage to moscow, to petersburg, to those
“can one be well while suffering morally? can one be calm in times
cannot leave the estate to pierre. pierre is illegitimate.”
cannot know him. you do not know him and that is why you are unhappy.”
cannot, disappoint them. but how will it be? i do not know, but it
cannot attain the knowledge of which you speak.”
cannon, was a small, newly constructed wattle shed from which came the
cannon balls at the french with both hands.
cannon and the crowd were dragging it out. a cannon ball killed someone
cannon aimed at me?”
cannonade was dying down, but the rattle of musketry behind and on the
can it be possible?” she thought, not daring to look at his face, but
“can i see the count?” pierre again asked.
can i retain in some degree of purity the liquid i receive.”
“can he really be going away leaving me alone without having told me
candles were relit and he was told that he would see the full light; the
candlesticks like those used in churches. two of the brothers led pierre
can both fall on his flank and pursue him over the plain between
“can a sleigh pass?” he asked his overseer, a venerable man,
canal. and there was the bear swimming about with the policeman on his
campaign. the frenchman, confusing the austrians with the russians, was
campaign is over?”
came with the news that the prince could not attend. prince andrew came
came to these balls with an air of condescension and found them most
came to the conclusion that he would not find bald hills dull either.
came to his former chief with an order from the commander of the rear
came together and crowded in the large drawing room by the door of the
came thy conception of the existence of such an incomprehensible being?
came, the pretty, fair-haired frenchwoman, mademoiselle bourienne,
came over his face. he said nothing to her but looked at her forehead
came out—wearing a velvet coat with a single star on his breast,
came naturally to her, but was now very ill-suited to her careworn face.
came márya dmítrievna and the count, both with merry countenances. the
came in from his club, cheerful and contented. nicholas, hearing him
came in.
came galloping up on a cossack horse that could scarcely carry his
came and leaned on his elbows, facing her and beside mademoiselle
came a man wearing a strange shako and a blue cloak, swarthy, sunburned,
came a letter from kutúzov informing the prince of the fate that had
“calm yourself, princess! it seems so to you because.... i assure you
“calm yourself, my dear. i will go to my father,” she said, and went
calmer.
calm, and penetrating, a look i loved so well and seem to see before me
calls.’”
calling on the principal austrian dignitaries. between four and five
calling him in a whisper.
calling him a court weathercock and an old satyr.
call him but changed her mind. “let him look for me,” thought she.
called the colonel of the regiment and said a few words to him.
called him this morning?”
called him a great man,” remarked the vicomte.
called her nephew—and playing with him.
called everyone without exception and without the slightest variation
calèche stopped in front of the regiment. kutúzov and the austrian
calamity! what a calamity!”
cahd.”
cadet, supporting one hand with the other, came up to túshin and asked
by which the total exceeded the round sum of forty-three thousand; and
by which the prince was to enter. prince andrew was looking at a large
by “what was due from the ryazán estate” prince vasíli meant
by two considerations: his wife’s guilt, of which after his sleepless
by, tried to make a joke, saying that kutúzov had evidently failed to
by those troops that they were themselves in the front line and had
by this time they were all approaching túshin’s battery, and a ball
by the whole of the count’s plump figure, in márya dmítrievna found
“by the way, your excellency, i should inform you,” he
by the way, bagratión came out on the vienna-znaim road at hollabrünn
by the softness and flexibility of her small limbs, and by a certain
by the living mass of moving infantry, váska denísov, red and shaggy,
by their redness to contrast more than usual with his gray hair. at the
by the french who had crossed the vienna bridge, and encumbered by his
by the fire. one of them stumbled.
by the disorderly movement of the russian columns, and from all
by the dim light, to which pierre had already become accustomed, he
by the commander in chief. despite the un-russian appearance of the
by the clatter of knives and forks, the voices of visitors, and the
by the amusing scene she foresaw. she drew her wool down through the
by the ammunition wagon.
by someone’s order, the battery had continued firing and was only not
by six horses at a smart trot. behind the calèche galloped the suite
“by purifying and regenerating our members we try, thirdly, to improve
by leo tolstoy/tolstoi
by kutúzov was hurriedly retreating along the danube, stopping where
by its gray dress. “but no! why did this thought never occur to me
by his home circle as the best of sons, a hero, and their darling
by his age he should have belonged to the younger men, but by his wealth
by highfalutin words, and germans by logical arguments to show them
by her husband, mortemart, the delightful prince hippolyte who had
by finding husbands for me (most of whom i don’t even know), the
by evening, the adjutants had spread it to all ends and parts of the
by borís arrived at the palace to find dolgorúkov. everyone at
by bolkónski—an adjutant of kutúzov’s, who’s a friend of mine.
by a scarlet-liveried footman that morning, ran as follows:
by anna pávlovna, was about our diplomatic relations with austria and
by a feeling of desire while stooping over the snuffbox at anna
by a far more serious matter than a desire to show his contempt for
bwicks and it’s nasty work! an attack’s pleasant work! hacking
buxhöwden’s part and an epileptic fit on bennigsen’s. but at the
buxhöwden is commander in chief by seniority, but general bennigsen
“but you must decide on something! your father expects it.”
“but you meant to stay another two days?”
“but you know the wise maxim your excellency, advising one to expect
“but you know how it all ended, don’t you? you heard of the duel?”
“but you despise me. you who are so pure can never understand being so
but would probably never even inquire and would never know that the
but won’t you come to this other table?” repeated anna pávlovna.
“but with such ideas what motive have you for living? one would sit
but why, whither, and who they were, it was impossible to make out.
“but why talk of me?... talk to me, yes, tell me about your travels
“but why do you expect that he will leave us anything?”
but which possesses qualities resembling those of the symbol.”
“but where is sónya?”
“but where do you come from not to know what every coachman in the
but when katie brought the required dress, princess mary remained
but when he reached it he found it was a road. having come out onto
      * “but what the devil was he doing in that galley?”
“but what is there to say about me?” said pierre, his face relaxing
“but what have they been up to?” asked the countess.
“but what do you mean by living only for yourself?” asked pierre,
but went on turning uselessly in the same place.
but unabashed.
button of his waistcoat.
but to help england and austria against the greatest man in the world is
but to go home alone, see his sisters, brother, mother, and father,
but those tears were pleasant to them both.
“but they say that war has been declared,” replied the visitor.
“but they heard him at the council of war and will hear him when he
“but the worst of it, gentlemen—i am giving kurágin away to
but the talk in every group was chiefly about the emperor alexander. his
but the staff officer did not finish what he wanted to say. a cannon
but the smile did not enhance véra’s beauty as smiles generally do;
but these words came like a piteous, despairing cry and an entreaty for
but the question “how?” that interested him. what the diplomatic
but the princess did not listen to him.
but the officer thrashed him because he had to get on as quickly as
but the guns remained loaded, the loopholes in blockhouses and
but the convoyman took no notice of the word “general” and shouted
“but the best of it was,” said one, telling of the misfortune of
“but that’s the grand duke, and i want the commander in chief or the
“but that’s just the same as myself—they are not others,”
“but that’s all rubbish,” natásha chattered on. “and is
“but that is my conviction, and judging by the last letter with which
“but tell me, what is he like, eh?” said prince andrew again.
“but still this does not mean that the campaign is over,” said
but shouldn’t we get the gypsy singers as well? you military men like
but she was too excited to eat anything and kept wriggling about on her
“but she’s stupid. i have myself said she is stupid,” he thought.
“but seriously,” said prince andrew, “we can at any rate say
but said, in a careless and even rude voice, that it happens to
but rostóv pulled away his arm and, with as much anger as though
but rostóv did not reply.
but remarked that besides these changes it would be necessary to go into
“but really, hadn’t i better go away?” he asked, looking kindly at
“but, prince,” said anna mikháylovna, “after such a solemn
but pierre thought it necessary to ask: “how is...” and hesitated,
but pierre continued his speech without heeding her.
but our stories are the stories of men who have been under the enemy’s
but on tuesday evening, having come to hélène’s splendid salon,
but on the left flank the columns of infantry, cavalry, and artillery,
but only changed character. the horses were replaced by others from a
but only a sort of puppet show at which the men of the day were playing,
“but one cannot delay, prince, at such a moment! consider that the
     but oh! till then i cannot live!...
but now we are all going to ——’s.”
“but now i am off at once.”
“but nothing more would come of it. there will soon be a battalion of
but not concealing the fact that she would not be distressed if they
but neither anna mikháylovna nor the footman nor the coachman, who
“but, my poor catiche, it is as clear as daylight! he will then be the
“but, my dear sir,” said nesvítski as he drew up, taking off his
“but, my dear,” said prince vasíli suddenly, clutching the little
“but, my dear princess,” answered anna mikháylovna blandly but
“but, my dear monsieur pierre,” said she, “how do you explain the
     * “but my dear fellow, with all my respect for the orthodox
but milorádovich was at that moment evidently thinking of anything
but managed meanwhile to look round repeatedly at his neighbor, the
but looked at him with a contemptuous smile, waiting for the valet to
but like a priest’s benediction, approached the general. though
butler, napkin on arm, was scanning the setting of the table, making
but joyous and eager crowd down the hill at their disordered foe.
“but joking apart,” said prince andrew, “do you really think the
“but i wish it,” he said. “i beg you—give it him!”
but it was too late. she was looking at them with an expression they
“but it must be brought to a head. the day after tomorrow will be
but it lifted all the more sweetly, and was especially charming when she
“but it isn’t?...”
but it is a beautiful voice that must be trained.” only they generally
“but it can’t be he, alone in the midst of this empty field!”
“but i remember putting it there.”
“but in what was i to blame?” he asked. “in marrying her without
“but in what position are we going to attack him? i have been at the
but in the center where the men with a flag of truce had passed that
but instead of the band a choir began singing a cantata composed by paul
but in his usual impulsive and hearty way he took borís by the hand
“but i just wish to say, to avoid misunderstandings, that you are
“but i have nothing here,” replied pierre, supposing that he was
but i have killed her, killed... she won’t get over it! she won’t
“but if you won’t accept money from me like a comrade, you will
but if the count, getting more and more into the swing of it, charmed
“but if the bridge is crossed it means that the army too is lost? it
“but if for any reason you don’t feel inclined to talk to me,”
“but i do not know, father!”
but i do not believe it. i have no right to, and can’t, believe it.”
but i am still so weak that i love my life, the meaning of which is only
“but how often i have felt proud of her, proud of her majestic beauty
“but how is it the doctor from moscow is not here yet?” said the
“but how are you to get that balance?” pierre was beginning.
but hopeless: “the sovereigns, madame... what have they done for louis
but his character...” said timókhin.
but his aim to consider, and he reached it. but tie yourself up with
but he went on naïvely looking around through his spectacles as if in
but he scowled at her angrily though also with suffering in his eyes,
“but he must be a freemason,” said he, referring to the abbé whom
but he immediately recalled his promise to prince andrew not to go
but he did not explain to himself what these new relations were.
but he could not make up his mind to take the final step. he felt
but haste was becoming imperative. cannon and musketry, mingling
but had on one of her best dresses. her hair was carefully done and her
but had never spoken to her of love. now he felt that it was inevitable,
but god will support you: you are young, and are now, i hope, in command
“but for god’s sake, be careful, you know how it may affect your
but extremely attractive.
but evidently the crisis was over and he was convalescent. prince andrew
but enough of gossip. i am at the end of my second sheet of paper, and
“but do you know, my dear, that was a capital joke,” said the count;
“but don’t hurt my little horse!” said the alsatian good-naturedly
but dólokhov did not go away; he untied the handkerchief around his
but borís spoke distinctly, clearly, and dryly, looking straight into
but borís noticed that he was preparing to make fun of berg, and
but borís... no!” (she shut her eyes.) “no! there’s nothing at
but borís again interrupted him.
“but between not recognizing him as emperor and calling him general
but before prince vasíli had finished his playful speech, pierre,
but before pierre could decide what answer he would send, the countess
but before he had finished speaking, prince andrew, feeling tears of
but before he had finished reading, a stentorian major-domo announced
“but a very kind man, prince,” said anna mikháylovna with a
but at the moment when he imagined himself calmed by such reflections,
but at the incredible boldness and smartness of this little girl who had
but at that moment the thought occurred to her that her fate would be
but at that instant a tall austrian general in a greatcoat, with the
but attacked and captured by a superior enemy force as a result of one
but at irregular intervals, and grapeshot cracked and rattled onto the
“but as you are a philosopher, be a consistent one, look at the other
but as sorrow was manifest in every smile, the sound of every word, and
but as she passed the sitting room she noticed two couples sitting,
“but as it is, i know every word she utters. she will come running to
but, as he had to say something, he began by asking her whether she was
but as a youth in love trembles, is unnerved, and dares not utter the
but a roll of volleys of musketry from the slopes of the hill before
but anna pávlovna—who was in the excited condition of a commander on
but anna mikháylovna went forward a step or two to keep her hold on the
but anna mikháylovna did not obey him.
but an hour.... tell me all you know about the will, and above all where
“but am i not too cold with him?” thought the princess. “i try
but although alpátych, frightened at his own temerity in avoiding the
but also for his skill in dealing and conversing with those in the
busy with similar peaceful affairs—near the shelter of the regimental
busy with his roast meat, hoped he had been forgotten: “didn’t
busy, and busy making his father comfortable, while evidently he,
    * “busy already?”
bustlingly searching for something.
business!”
bursts of song and music and the inconsequent but friendly prattle of
burnt his boats, and i believe that we are ready to burn ours.”
burn, i could not know by the holy spirit!”
burden to him, and bóry’s life is only just beginning....”
“buonaparte was born with a silver spoon in his mouth. he has got
buonapartes. but i warn you, if you don’t tell me that this means war,
“buonaparte?” said bilíbin inquiringly, puckering up his forehead
“buonaparte himself!... just listen to the fool, what he doesn’t
bully,” thought pierre, “to kill a man means nothing to him. it must
bullets. they reached the front, several bullets sped over them, and
built lodge close to the pond. antón, a man who had looked after prince
built in order to have a nook of one’s own in which to be quiet. and
build prince andrew could endure physical fatigue far better than many
buildings—schools, hospitals, and asylums—on all the estates
bugler, showed one common expression of conflict, irritation, and
brunette with a tender look in her eyes which were veiled by long
brows he glanced into rostóv’s eyes.
brought into wischau from our outposts. this officer was savary. the
brought into the room had vanished; and as if answering a question no
brought his snuffbox to rest and, without looking at weyrother or at
brought from italy, representing an angel with outspread wings ready to
brought at once?”
brother who prepared a seeker for entrance into the brotherhood was
brothers more worthy than he would test him and that pierre had only to
brothers, and burned with impatience to set to work with them.
brother rhetor, and awaited his further commands.
brotherly love, wagged their heads in token of their mutual affection,
“brother-instructor” as he called the grand master.
brotherhood of man,” he kept saying to himself, associating these
brotherhood has made application for you to be received into our order
brother hippolyte told me about your goings on. oh!” and she shook her
brother a small, oval, antique, dark-faced icon of the saviour in a gold
brother, and that anna mikháylovna was preparing them for it. bold as
broke up two squares, your excellency.”
broken off, the porch, and the post by the side of the pavement. he
broken leg, that lay screaming piteously beside the harnessed horses.
broken glass remained in that position without taking his eyes from the
broad cheekbones, sunken cheeks, and listless tired expressions, and
briskly from corner to corner of the room, looking straight before him
bring me such tattered and dirty notes as last time, but nice clean ones
bring him to thee, could take him by the hand and show him to thee. but
bring himself to part from his daughter and give her to a husband. the
   bring glory then to alexander’s reign
bright, sparkling blue eyes into his antagonist’s face. his mouth wore
bright. sónya ran away, but natásha, taking her brother’s arm, led
brightly upon the danube and the dark hills around it. it was calm, and
bright home, his fluffy fur coat, his quickly gliding sleigh, his
brighter and more energetic. he was slightly flushed after galloping two
brightening up.
bright and happy eyes at her sister-in-law.
bridge was at times veiled by a diaphanous curtain of slanting rain, and
bridge. sometimes through the monotonous waves of men, like a fleck of
bridge not knowing what to do. there was no one to hew down (as he
bridge nesvítski found the colonel to whom he had to deliver the order,
bridge is taken! but what is best of all,” he went on, his excitement
     * bridgehead.
bridge did not take his eyes off the women till they had passed. when
bridge, cross it, and now with their whole army are on this side of the
bridge. but this time nesvítski could not see what was happening there,
bridge because he had not brought any burning straw with him like the
brick buildings, built to plan, were being built by serfs whose manorial
breeches and arm.
breathing, her movements, her beauty. then it would suddenly seem to him
breath and beating heart he moved toward the rhetor (by which name the
breast with the other hand and to repeat after someone who read aloud
brave officer,” thought bagratión. prince andrew, without replying,
brave?”
braunau had halted half a mile from the town, waiting to be inspected
brandishing the slab.
brain—that’s all that’s left me!” and at the same time he said
braggart and his son, no doubt, is a fine specimen,” he grumbled to
brag about it, but if he stays out till morning it means he’s lost and
boy... the countess... promoted to be an officer... thank god... how
boy ran after them angrily, as if vexed that their program had been
bows and trying to escape as quickly as possible from the glances fixed
bowed his head in sign of assent and approval. he rode off at a walk to
bowed head.
bourienne, with her ribbon and pretty face, and her unusually animated
bourienne with a radiant face that said: “i know nothing, i am the
bourienne who had not yet seen her.
bourienne. when she entered with her heavy step, treading on her heels,
bourienne were already awaiting him together with his architect, who by
bourienne was often touched to tears as in imagination she told this
bourienne, unfolding her white napkin with her rosy fingers. “his
bourienne. though in the new reign he was free to return to the
bourienne’s head at the very time she was talking to anatole about
bourienne rapidly, in her pleasant mellow tones and with guttural r’s.
bourienne. princess mary felt his look with a painfully joyous emotion.
bourienne—i shall have to get rid of her. and how is it she has not
bourienne. i embrace you as i love you.
bourienne had long been waiting for a russian prince who, able to
bourienne flushed, and gave the princess a frightened look.
bourienne aroused her. she raised her eyes, and two steps away saw
boulogne expedition.
bottles of wine with him and, despite the jolting ruts across the
bottles, cloaks, and overshoes were lying about; there was a smell of
bottle. i’ll do it.... bring a bottle!”
both were silent. there were two germans and a russian officer in the
both were silent.
both laughed.
both kurágin and dólokhov were at that time notorious among the rakes
both knew, an expression thoughtful and sad. this expression in princess
both began to cry and kissed again. mademoiselle bourienne also began to
both armies should remain in position without moving. murat declared
bosom as it rose and fell.
bóry, who had only just entered a regiment of the line and was being
born, and so on. then he was again led somewhere still blindfolded,
borís with the happy smile seen on the faces of young men who have been
borís with severity. “i am glad.... are you here on leave?” he went
borís with a smile.
borís was excited by the thought of being so close to the higher powers
borís to tell them about his journey to glogau and in what state he
borís smiled circumspectly, so that it might be taken as ironical
borís smiled, as if he understood what prince andrew was alluding to
“borís,” she said to her son with a smile, “i shall go in to see
borís said no more, but looked inquiringly at his mother without taking
borís rose to meet rostóv, but in doing so did not omit to steady and
borís received no clear explanation of why it had been necessary for
borís quietly left the room and went in search of natásha. the plump
borís promised to fulfill her wish and was about to begin a
borís paused in the middle of the room, looked round, brushed a little
borís, or between you two? it’s all nonsense!”
borís made a grimace.
borís looked attentively and kindly at her eager face, but did not
borís listened attentively to each of the speakers, awaiting his turn,
borís knew nothing about the boulogne expedition; he did not read the
borís inquired what news there might be on the staff, and what, without
borís. “he wanted to thank you himself.”
borís, grown more manly and looking fresh, rosy and self-possessed,
borís followed her, smiling.
borís felt that pierre did not recognize him but did not consider
“borís, come here,” said she with a sly and significant look. “i
borís bowed politely. prince vasíli without acknowledging the bow
borís bowed again politely.
borís blushed.
borís and borís was to forward them to nicholas. the letters were from
borís also,” she went on, gaining a little strength; “he is nice...
borís.
bore almost the same smile, expressing unseemly thoughts about the
boots or overcoats and crowding round the boilers and porridge cookers.
boots between the dining and drawing rooms, hastily greeting the
boots and the clinking of spurs that came to a stop, and a respectful
book two: 1805
    book two: 1805
    book twelve: 1812
book three: 1805
    book three: 1805
    book thirteen: 1812
    book ten: 1812
    book six: 1808 - 10
    book seven: 1810 - 11
book one: 1805
    book one: 1805
    book nine: 1812
book had been sent him by someone unknown. one thing he continually
book from the high desk.
    book fourteen: 1812
book four: 1806
    book four: 1806
book five: 1806 - 07
    book five: 1806 - 07
    book fifteen: 1812 - 13
    book eleven: 1812
    book eight: 1811 - 12
bookcases with keys in the locks, the high desk for writing while
bonaparte was anathematized and in moscow nothing but the coming war
bonaparte, there is a difference,” remarked bolkónski.
bonaparte, ‘that your majesty should be received and treated in my
bonaparte, that they desire to see prince auersperg, and so on. the
bonaparte’s side.”
bonaparte’s new triumph, tomorrow’s levee and parade, and the
bonaparte’s adjutant rode full gallop with this menacing letter to
bonaparte like? how did he impress you?”
bonaparte, having come up at a gallop, stopped his horse.
“bonaparte has said so,” remarked prince andrew with a sarcastic
“bonaparte...” began dólokhov, but the frenchman interrupted him.
bonaparte, and how badly the latter would fare now, especially if the
bonaparte!”
bolkónski, wishing to profit by his friendliness and obtain for himself
bolkónski, who spoke with suppressed agitation.
bolkónski was invited everywhere, and had to spend the whole morning
bolkónski, very modestly without once mentioning himself, described the
bolkónski, turning still paler, pushed him away with an angry look and
bolkónski took the opportunity to go in to get some details of the
bolkónski, the little princess’ husband. he was a very handsome young
bolkónski that the emperor desired to give him an audience. the emperor
bolkónski shrugged his shoulders.
bolkónski referred to anatole as a “pupil”) “for the sake of my
bolkónski recognized prince repnín whom he had met in petersburg
bolkónski, opposite which hung another such frame with a badly painted
bolkónski noticed the hussar’s state of mind, and it amused him. with
bolkónski in order to arrange a match for him with the daughter of that
“bolkónski!” he whispered, his voice trembling from a consciousness
“bolkónski! bolkónski!... don’t you hear? eh? come quick...” he
bolkónskaya, very pretty and rosy, though rather too plump for her age.
bold, tall, close handwriting.
boldly, with saucy gaiety, confident that her prank would be taken in
boldly, “if you wish to refuse one who is not only a brilliant and
bold forehead that bent over her hand and answered his question by
boguchárovo lay in a flat uninteresting part of the country among
bogdánovna advised prince andrew to leave the room.
bogdánovna.
bogdánich was a brick: he told you you were saying what was not true.
bogdánich knows how things are done.”
body was strikingly out of proportion to her short legs. prince vasíli
body. drowsiness was irresistibly mastering him, but he kept awake by
bodice, with black curls tossed backward, thin bare arms, little legs
blushing—“of asking the commander in chief. he has had a letter from
blushing and dropping her eyes.
blushing:
blushing.
blush.
blue-striped feather bed and hugging her friend. with an effort sónya
blue mountains beyond the river, the nunnery, the mysterious gorges, and
blood was gushing from its leg as from a spring. among the limbers lay
blood rush to his heart. “but where and how will my toulon present
blood rush to his heart and had again to get up and move about and break
blood. on seeing this, pierre moved forward with his breast toward the
blood on it. “ah, here are people coming,” he thought joyfully,
blood from it was streaming over his greatcoat as from a bottle. he had
blocking the way for everyone. the countess tried to make him talk,
blockhead!”
blissful face “like a vewy devil,” as denísov expressed it.
blinked, went red, got up and sat down again, struggling with himself
blindfolded) questioned him as to who he was, when and where he was
bleeding head and no cap was being dragged along by two soldiers who
bleeding hand with a handkerchief tied round it) “and i remained at
bleed him and patch him up. he will drag about as a cripple, a burden to
blame. the troops meanwhile stood growing listless and dispirited. after
black figures of hussars, but in the distance was still the same misty
blackest ingratitude—in this house...”
black-agate eyes at the frightened and happy natásha.
biting her underlip. at sight of pierre her expression showed an
bit and i’ll get round him.... listen! i’ll take your bet tomorrow,
bilíbin), what he had read began to interest him more and more. when he
bilíbin was now at army headquarters in a diplomatic capacity, and
bilíbin was a man of thirty-five, a bachelor, and of the same circle as
bilíbin smiled and the wrinkles on his face disappeared.
bilíbin’s letter which was written in french. he read without
bilíbin’s house thinking out a letter to his father about the battle
bilíbin liked conversation as he liked work, only when it could be
bilíbin. “it’s not treachery nor rascality nor stupidity: it is
bilíbin introduced him to the others.
bilíbin came out to meet him. his usually calm face showed excitement.
bilíbin, “as you know, my dear prince, i never leave headquarters. i
bilíbin and the rest of “ours” burst out laughing in hippolyte’s
big people i write a note: ‘princess so-and-so desires an interview
bezúkhov’s house that night had gathered to fortify themselves.
bezúkhova. but you will understand that i have no desire for the post.
beyond ceremonies and meaningless prayers and are now instructed in
be worthy of her. and that is what we shall see.”
bewildered look and passed by without a word. a woman rushed out and
bewildered him with fine words, and he is so flattered by his rapidly
be virtuous. not a trace of his former doubts remained in his soul. he
be very glad to do all in my power both for you and for this dear young
between three and four o’clock in the afternoon prince andrew, who
between them gleamed blue infinity. he did not turn his head and did not
between his acts as a private person, as a general, and as an emperor.
between himself and that lofty infinite sky with the clouds flying over
between forefinger and thumb, and an old servant, bending over from
better not look,” he thought, but having reached the bushes he glanced
better during those awful moments—the father who so remembered
betraying her sympathy for the “daredevil,” as she called dólokhov.
betraying by this desperate and provocative proposition his extreme
betrayal of the bourbon cause. the sovereigns! why, they are sending
be thus boldly, provocatively happy.” “and what nonsense all this is
be they what they might.
be the best way.”
be talked over at length. at last the conversation gradually settled on
bestowed on véra by nicholas, was considered very stinging), “and
best of officers could do in his position, he was in a state akin to
best families in russia, but she was poor, and having long been out of
beside whom sat only one elderly lady, who with her thin careworn face
beside the old prince.
beside themselves over there and one can’t make anything out.”
beside the farthest of the four unlimbered cannon. before the guns an
beside the bed. pierre obediently sat down, his eyes asking if he were
“besides,” thought he, “all such ‘words of honor’ are
besides this refined selection of society anna pávlovna’s receptions
“besides that, peter nikoláevich, by exchanging into the guards
“besides how can i ask the emperor for his instructions for the right
besides! but don’t let’s talk about me; tell me how you managed
beside him. this hussar, with a grave face and without a smile or a
beside him. “that must be the enemy’s camp!”
beside him and was listening naïvely to his words.
beside hélène. “this happiness is not for you,” some inner voice
be shaken in her determination.
be seen from the hill on the opposite bank but was not yet visible from
berg was mentioned, by those who did not know him, as having, when
berg took the opportunity to ask, with great politeness, whether, as was
berg smiled joyously. the count, followed by his guests, went into the
berg put on the cleanest of coats, without a spot or speck of dust,
berg as much as you please,” she finished quickly.
berg always spoke quietly, politely, and with great precision. his
be ready to fulfill his will.” with this consoling thought (but
“be quiet, backbiter!” said dolgorúkov. “it is not true; there
be parted from her) would be gained, so pacifying himself with this
be overthrown by the angel whom it has pleased the almighty, in his
be out of your way! do go somewhere, anywhere... to the devil!” he
be. of the four crystal glasses engraved with the count’s monogram
bent arm to márya dmítrievna. he drew himself up, a smile of debonair
beneath his smile rostóv saw in him the mood he had shown at the club
beneath his dignity to give me satisfaction, then...”
bending his forehead to hers just touched it, and pressed her hand so
bending forward in his armchair he said: “le roi de prusse!” and
below, where the fight was beginning, there was still thick fog; on the
below the shoulder. pierre went with anna mikháylovna into the small
below.
bells rang, the stewards rushed forward, and—like rye shaken together
believes, in the speaker’s tone of conviction and earnestness, or
“believe me,” said prince dolgorúkov, addressing bagratión, “it
“believe me, princess, i am ready to do all i can,” answered prince
“believe me, prince, a mother’s heart will never forget what you
believe everything you’re told. you were told...” hélène laughed,
believed he would be reborn to a new life.
being too much loved; and besides, you are free, you could throw it
being told she sat upright, glancing now at her beautiful round arm,
being said, thought, and felt that day by its rider.
being rose in her imagination, and carried her into a totally different
being moved, and the probing of his wound at the dressing station.
being imposed on him which he could not fulfill, and pleased him as an
being carried by. she looked out. the men servants were carrying the
being (and which struck pierre especially by contrast with his own
behind the pineapples at her husband whose face and bald head seemed
behind them, another fell in front and splashed dólokhov with blood.
behind the guns were their limbers and still farther back picket ropes
behind the emperor. the Ápsheron men, excited by the tsar’s presence,
behind the chair, held it in position. by the chair stood the priests,
behind. one of them said something strange, not in russian. in among the
behind moved infantry. the commander in chief was standing at the end of
behind him stood the aide-de-camp, the doctors, and the menservants;
behind him bondarchúk, an hussar he knew, jolted against him and looked
behind him.
behind her back. the french doctor held no taper; he was leaning
behind each chair—stood waiting for the prince to enter. the head
behind. and now here we stand hungry.”
behavior to women anatole had a manner which particularly inspires in
behaving with borís.”
behaving himself, and in general...”
beg you to dress your men decently.”
begun to think of the last station and was still pondering on the same
begin, when did it all come about?” and here he was sitting by her
begin the engagement.
beginning to feel for the pretty and provocative mademoiselle bourienne
beginning of the action.) “i think i sent you?” he added, turning to
begin,” he whispered, and taking up his glass, he rose. all were
beg—i’ll take it!”
began, with a blush that looked very strange on her thin, dignified,
began to wail like a baby without knowing why, except that sónya was
began to devise and carry out a plan of how princess mary should be
began to be said. these reasons were the treachery of the austrians, a
began to arrive; and slowly turning her eyes from the visitor to her
began. “they’ll be announcing that the gentlemen are in the drawing
began speaking clearly and definitely. reasons were found for the
began riding downhill to where the roll of musketry was heard but where
began reading. the old prince, now and then using abbreviations, wrote
began popping corks and filling the champagne glasses. after the fish,
began for the first, second, and third columns, which had gone down into
began crossing himself with the hand that held the taper.
began.
before yesterday during my daily walk through the village i witnessed a
before with proposals and demands for him to join up with the army of
before they reached the room from which the sounds of the clavichord
before the usual term and has proposed to me to be your sponsor. i
before the master arrived. everywhere preparations were made not for
before the jews.”
before the heights on which the russian batteries stood guarding the
before the battle, the figure of the insignificant little napoleon, and
before rostóv had time to make out what the black thing was that had
before returning to bilíbin’s prince andrew had gone to a bookshop
before prince andrew could finish, an aide-de-camp came in to summon
before, or am i mistaken now? no, she is not stupid, she is an excellent
before krems was really of small importance in view of such events as
before it was halted facing the enemy. again, as at the enns bridge,
before. it was a german cart with a pair of horses led by a german, and
before. “how often we sin, how much we deceive, and all for what? i am
before his shelter, had been tasted.
before him. the french had advanced nearest on our right. below the
before him, on the right, rostóv saw the front lines of his hussars and
before him but the motionless earth and the stubble around him. there
before he reached him, rostóv, who was a splendid horseman, spurred
before he had reached the embankments that were being thrown up, he saw,
before he could reach znaim. hence bagratión with his four thousand
before. having taken a kerchief from the cupboard, willarski bound
before going down she went into the room where the icons hung and, her
before five in the evening the battle had been lost at all points. more
before dinner, princess mary and mademoiselle bourienne, who knew
before dawn he had slept for a few hours, and refreshed, vigorous, and
before coming to the dinner he had had his hair and whiskers trimmed,
before anna pávlovna and the others had time to smile their
before and was less frequently at home.
before and the path to the hothouse, along which the prince was in the
before?” and again he told himself that it was impossible, that there
before action which he had experienced as previously, all the inner
befallen his son.
been waiting for.” and bursting into tears she hid her face in her
been vicious only because he had somehow forgotten how good it is to
been up to heaven only knows what! and they have had to suffer for it.
been unjust to the austrians and especially to weyrother. what
been under fire already?” asked borís.
been trying first one remedy and then another. worn out by sleeplessness
been told to, and the emperor francis merely looked fixedly into his
been thinking about you.”
been there at seven in the morning,” returned bilíbin with a smile.
been telling us such a tale about mademoiselle george and buonaparte!”
been taken by the french as a trophy.)
been so pleased at olmütz and according to which an ensign might rank
been reprimanded on account of the blue greatcoat.
been refused. he asked in a hesitating, piteous voice.
been recommended to prince andrew he had already risen above the general
been ready, but they still delayed and all were silent.
been put off,” said the prince, who, like a wound-up clock, by force
been more amusing than the drawing room talk of society scandals, the
been minutely described. princess mary was sitting alone in her room,
been looking at.
been intriguing!”
been forwarded by courier to the commander in chief.
been foreseen, the russian army of thirty-five thousand men commanded
been engrossed by the same thoughts ever since the day he returned from
been destroyed or not. and if they have somehow been overlooked, you
been composed in the turkish campaign and now being sung in austria, the
been brought up in the most aristocratic circles.
been bewildered. at that time, the russians were so used to victories
been attacked by french cavalry and that, though the attack had been
been able to free himself but that prince vasíli (who had rarely before
be easy, but here, in this wretched moravian hole, it is more difficult,
bedroom. pierre did not eat anything though he would very much have
be dozing. his head sank forward and then he roused himself.
bedouin twice and successfully put him to the showy trot in which the
be done; he felt that everybody, including his mother and sisters, was
be difficult to return to the old regime.”
bed.
be crossed and you will have to find out what is there, just as you will
become thoroughly conversant with that unwritten code with which he had
becomes a man who values his honor, perhaps too hastily, but we won’t
become of that scoundrel?” he asked denísov.
become her social vocation and, sometimes even when she did not
become habitual to him and, his handsome head held high, entered his
become cruel and harsh, are conscious of it, but cannot restrain
become completely changed, and had quite left behind his former habits
become calmer since i began to live only for myself.”
become a habit. schemes and devices for which he never rightly accounted
be clearly seen glittering as though freshly varnished. down below,
“because when once a man starts on military service, he should try to
“because not everything happens as one expects or with the smoothness
because it concerned not himself but another, his daughter, whom he
“because i hate ghost stories,” said prince hippolyte in a tone
because his line was not straight, he reached the third company.
because he rose superior to the revolution, suppressed its abuses,
because he could not. in the middle of a figure he beckoned to rostóv
be carried out, was forgotten. now, entering into weyrother’s plan,
be carried back with it oneself. bolkónski only tried not to lose
became quite pleasant again.
be brought here well wrapped up in felt. i must have two hundred pots
be better dressed than others, and would rather deprive himself of many
be best described as strength of will. pierre was always astonished at
beauty as she glided away. “and how she carries herself! for so young
beautiful young princess who was sitting some way off, the center of
“beautiful,” said the doctor in answer to a remark about the
beautiful, radiant eyes. it was as if joy—a supreme joy apart from the
beautiful hélène, whose eyes several times met those of the handsome
beautiful head and looking over her classically molded shoulder as she
beautiful eyes. last night a proposition was made me on your account
beautiful eyes grew dim, red blotches came on her face, and it took
beautiful bosom, on which she readjusted a diamond necklace. from time
beautiful.”
beaucoup d’estime, and again her face clouded over with sadness.
be at stake. but this one is too light, it’s not becoming!”
bear the whole burden on his shoulders. fancy what he had to go through!
bears!...”
bearers and the shuffling of their feet grew more hurried, as if the
be, anyway he is an honorable and brave old colonel! you’re quick at
be anyone’s lackey, but i who have nothing but my brains have to
be,” answered the princess joyfully.
be announced had passed straight through the glass porch between the
beams of mild and majestic light around, and already he felt himself
beaming smile to his head.
“be a man, my friend. i will look after your interests,” said she in
be afraid.”
battle the soldiers excitedly try to get beyond the interests of their
battle,” replied márya dmítrievna’s deep voice, which easily
battle is won by him alone. kutúzov is removed and he is appointed...
battlefield.”
battle and were engaged in peaceful occupations, the cavalry feeding the
battle and, in spite of the remonstrances of his courtiers, at twelve
battle, and by the sight of the gallant Ápsherons, his comrades in
battle, a list of whom has been sent me under flag of truce.”
battle.
battery when two balls, and then four more, fell among our guns, one
battery and the heroic endurance of captain túshin and his company,”
batteries ranged on the slopes of the pratzen heights, directed at our
battalion would follow him.
battalion to disperse them. during one of these attacks they carried off
battalions and artillery pass by and go forward and then generals
battalion commanders who smilingly pressed forward (it was plain that
battalion came onto the bridge. only denísov’s squadron of hussars
battalion and regimental commanders mounted, crossed themselves, gave
“bâton de gueules, engrêlé de gueules d’azur—maison condé,”
bathhouse, a lodge, and a large brick house with semicircular façade
barrier except the barrier of his own will.
baron funke to be appointed first secretary at vienna? the baron by all
“baron funke has been recommended to the dowager empress by her
baritone.
bare hand as red as his face.
bare chest. he was conducted from that room along passages that turned
banners, cannon, and two enemy generals. for the first time, after a
bank, hesitating to step onto the ice. the general on horseback at the
bank by unseen hands. prince andrew and the officer rode up, looked at
banging the table with a determined and drunken gesture and preparing to
bandy-legged domestic serf in a peaked cap and sheepskin coat.
band struck up in the gallery, and the guests settled down in their
band, came up and in angry tones asked the artillerymen for water.
bandage was again removed and more than ten voices said together: “sic
ball was even happier. they were both dressed in white muslin with pink
balls! i can’t tell you. and the tsarévich was very gracious to all
ballroom.
ball, flying close to him, caused him to duck and bend over his horse.
ball flew past, rose in the stirrups and sank back again. the soldiers
ball flew past. evidently they were firing at the hussars, but the balls
ball, cleaving the air, flew over the heads of bagratión and his suite,
bald hills, while he himself needed no one and nothing. he used to
bald hills. prince andrew, glancing at pierre, broke the silence now and
bald head, over which she again looked at the letter and the portrait,
bald head.
“bah! how they scurry. he just sends a ball and they think they’ll
bags into the carts, got their muskets ready, and formed rank. the
bagratión. “wait till tomorrow morning, we’ll find out everything
bagratión’s weak detachment on the znaim road he supposed it to be
bagratión’s troops, which had not yet advanced into action but were
bagratión stopped and, before replying, tried to see rostóv’s face
bagratión’s hard brown face with its half-closed, dull, sleepy eyes.
bagratión’s exhausted troops some rest, and letting the transport and
bagratión’s detachment was reunited to kutúzov’s army.
bagratión rode round the ranks that had marched past him and
bagratión replied that he was not authorized either to accept or refuse
bagratión ordered two battalions from the center to be sent to
bagratión, knowing bolkónski to be a favorite and trusted adjutant,
bagratión. his idea was, first, to concentrate all the artillery in the
bagratión gave no further orders and silently continued to walk on in
bagratión cast his large, expressionless, sleepy eyes round his suite,
bagratión called to him, and túshin, raising three fingers to his cap
bagratión bent his head in sign of agreement with what prince andrew
bagratión as he shouted, with an expression that seemed to say: “we
bagratión appeared in the doorway of the anteroom without hat or sword,
bagratión and dolgorúkov ride past with their adjutants. all the fear
bagratión, a gaunt middle-aged man of medium height with a firm,
bagratión.”
baggage was already being dispatched to olmütz. near hetzelsdorf prince
baggage train, the artillery, and columns of troops were defiling
baggage and transport, having to accept battle on the march against an
“bad news! he’s not among the prisoners nor among the killed!
badly through his spectacles, but that his wife’s connection with
badly—all this debauchery, dissipation, and the rest of it!”
bad for another traveler, and for himself it’s unavoidable, because
“bad! but it’s not that, my friend—” said dólokhov with a
bad. but anatole was dumb, swung his foot, and smilingly examined the
“bad! bad!” exclaimed pierre. “we all know what is bad for
backwards and forwards and was at last brought to the doors of the
back to the house.
back to moscow. anatole kurágin’s father managed somehow to get his
back her hair, kissed him full on the lips.
back, “give me your hand.” she took her sister-in-law’s hand and
back, cadet!” he cried angrily; and turning to denísov, who, showing
back, and bosom—which in the fashion of those days were very much
back.”
back.
back!”
baby, an old woman, and a healthy german girl with bright red cheeks
a young officer with a bewildered and pained expression on his face
a yawn. “plenty of time,” he repeated.
a wrathful wrinkle on her rather prominent marble brow. with her
a worthy dwelling place of the great god,” he added, and closed his
a word to you and you... what?” he added with renewed irritation, “i
a word to the questions addressed to him. but on entering moscow he
a woman and, like a chained convict, you lose all freedom! and all you
awkward to attract everyone’s attention and to be considered a
awkwardness or intentionally (no one could have said which) after the
awkward and uncomfortable, and her burden oppressed her now more than
a wild beast.... in poland, if you please, he nearly killed a jew.”
a wig, put his head out of the door of the antechamber, reported in
a whole month and this is the first time i have seen him in society.
a white uniform that looked strange among the russian black ones. the
a white horse followed by his suite, and said something in passing:
a whisper that the prince was sleeping, and hastily closed the door.
awful...” and he burst into tears.
awful!”
a week later, pierre, having taken leave of his new friends, the masons,
a week later pierre gave his wife full power to control all his estates
away with a grimace as if to say that everything dólokhov had said to
away. involuntarily recalling his wife’s past and her relations with
away her tears on her sister-in-law’s knee.
away from him. the alliance with prussia, austria’s treachery,
away from her. “destroying the army, destroying the men! and why? go,
away? but where to? it’s one—let them sing!”
away at the dogs! but this sort of thing is the very devil, with them
away and he had just managed to catch her, “didn’t he tell you how
away.
away.
away.
away.
aware that in front, behind, and on all sides, other russian columns
aware of his weaknesses.
aware of his existence. at the quarters of the commander in chief,
aware of a stir all around. he looked up: dólokhov was standing on the
awaiting a reply. he frowned.
awaited their fate. the firing died down and soldiers, talking eagerly,
avoid seeing all these suffering men, and he felt afraid—afraid not
avoiding gardens and enclosures, going over new and unknown ground, and
avoid general buxhöwden who by right of seniority should be our chief.
avoided the blow. “thought... blackguards...” shouted the prince
avoided looking at the young couple, and heedless and unobservant as
avoid doing certain things, and speak french. he was one of those,
“a visitor,” answered antón.
a visit. “i am starting on a journey of inspection, and of course i
a vigorous attack on the orator.
a victory over bonaparte, just when i’m not serving. yes, yes, he’s
a very long time. “if anyone finds this silence inconvenient, let him
    * “a very good morning! a very good morning!”
a very bad way of deciding whether a battle was won or lost. those who
author: leo tolstoy
authority in his voice. “who invented him, if he did not exist? whence
authorities to secure advantageous means of communication for herself
austria,” said mortemart. “the emperor of austria can never have
austrian troops, under the direction of so skillful a leader as general
austrian, to report and explain, and to his headquarters where he had
austrians, and all at once discovered from the cannon balls discharged
austrian general, continuing to read, frowned angrily and jerked his
austrian council of war at which suvórov crowed like a cock in reply to
austrian army of ulm. they are the same battalions you broke at
austrian and russian troops, both those freshly arrived from russia and
austrian adjutant, bilíbin, and last night’s conversation. having
austerlitz, borís was unable to see either prince andrew or dolgorúkov
“au revoir! thank you very much. his majesty will probably desire to
aunt without waiting to hear her speech about her majesty’s health.
aunt,” or “you do not know my aunt?” and very gravely conducted
“auntie, darling, do tell me what it is!”
auntie anna mikháylovna told me, under the seal of strict secrecy, of
aunt as she conducted him to her.
aunt, anna pávlovna mentioned each one’s name and then left them.
augesd.
auersperg was defending, and the bridge was not blown up: so murat
audience with the emperor francis occupied his thoughts.
audience, which produced an effect unfavorable to the narrator. several
audiences, but he does not like talking himself and can’t do it, as
audience over his spectacles and continued.
audible the whole length of the table.
a type of face different from that of the men, squeezed his way along;
at which prince andrew had been when he examined the battlefield.
“at what o’clock was general schmidt killed?”
“at what o’clock did the battle begin?” asked the emperor.
attitude toward him that had taken place in society.
attire appeared at the door. willarski, stepping toward him, said
at this moment that terrible door, which pierre had watched so long
at this big, stout, quiet man, wondering how such a clumsy, modest
at this a sudden change evidently took place in the princess’ ideas;
at the world is so opposed to yours that we shall not understand one
at the very instant he did this and uttered those words, pierre felt
at the steaming boiler, waiting till the sample, which a quartermaster
at the sound and then, smiling at his own sensations, stood still. the
at the soldiers who were blocking his way. “hi there, boys! keep to
at the soldiers as if threatening to punish them. cadet mirónov ducked
at the sight of the letter red patches showed themselves on the
at the razumóvski’s ball ... and countess apráksina ... i was
at the period of youth when there seems so much to do that there is no
at the olmütz review he had seemed more majestic; here he seemed
at the moment the door opened and the stranger came in, pierre felt a
at the men’s end of the table the talk grew more and more animated.
at the map, but at prince andrew’s face.
at them and hack them to pieces, their proximity now seemed so awful
at them.
at the levee prince andrew stood among the austrian officers as he had
at the least firing. the emperor’s gratitude was announced to the
at the head of a movement that had already become unrestrainable. he was
at the front an altercation occurred between an austrian guide and a
at the french.
at the foot of the hill lay wasteland over which a few groups of our
at the faces of his suite, young and animated as his own. czartorýski,
at the doors, but after all he did at last enter first. he walked shyly
at the door prince andrew and the figure of the old man in a white
at the door,” and natásha ran across the drawing room to the dancing
at the council—the coming battle and the victory that would certainly
at the club dinner.
at the cadet’s troubled face.
at the bottom of the sleigh beside rostóv, who grew more and more
at the beginning of march, old count ilyá rostóv was very busy
at the beautiful hélène with her radiant face and at the red, broad,
at the arkhárovs’ ball, talked about the war with field marshal
at the appointed hour the prince, powdered and shaven, entered the
at that time in the rostóvs’ house there prevailed an amorous
at that time, a very high ruffle, and a brown dress coat. this stout
at that moment, with noiseless footsteps and with the businesslike,
at that moment the door opened.
at that moment, on the road from the town on which signalers had been
at that moment made itself felt.
at that moment borís clearly realized what he had before surmised, that
at that moment, as the horse guards, having passed him, disappeared in
at that moment anna pávlovna came up and, looking severely at pierre,
at that instant the sun began to hide behind the clouds, and other
attentive to him. count cyril vladímirovich is your godfather after
attentively to what prince vasíli said, but kept glancing at princess
attentively to bagratión’s colloquies with the commanding officers
attention to the verses.
attention to something within her that is only seen in pregnant women,
attention to his story.
attention to her severe remark—and began to laugh. she laughed, and in
“att-ention!” shouted the regimental commander in a soul-shaking
attention of all to borís’ narrative was shown by hélène. she asked
attention. napoleon apparently remembered seeing him on the battlefield
attention. he screwed up his eyes showing that he was listening.
attention. he looked now at the pratzen heights, now at the sun floating
attention. dohktúrov, a little man, sat opposite weyrother, with
attention.
attend to the voice of their commander, or would they, disregarding him,
“attendez,” said anna pávlovna, reflecting, “i’ll speak to
attendance on him, to the enemy camp. wintzingerode was not merely
attempt at familiarity on the part of the russian messenger.
attain that knowledge and are still infinitely far from our aim; but
attained.
attack very long. about túshin and the battalion that had been in
attacks the prussians. the prussians are our faithful allies who have
attacks. both generals are angry, and the result is a challenge on
attack our headquarters, and the commander in chief has to ask for a
attack instead of being attacked, and so render the whole of this
“attack indeed!” said the colonel in a bored voice, puckering up his
attacked the men collecting wood in the copse. it was no longer possible
at someone unseen. “mr. pitt, as a traitor to the nation and to the
at six in the evening, kutúzov went to the emperor’s headquarters
“at seven o’clock? it’s very sad, very sad!”
“at seven o’clock, i believe.”
at schön grabern, what shall we not do now when he is at the front? we
a truce was kutúzov’s sole chance of gaining time, giving
a truce and sent his adjutant to kutúzov to report the offer he had
“a trifle,” said the colonel in his bass voice: “two hussars
a trembling hand placed a charge in the cannon’s mouth. the short,
a treat to her guests. as a clever maître d’hôtel serves up as a
at prince andrew with cool intensity, walking straight toward him and
at prince andrew, evidently considering something.
at prince andrew and did not even nod to him.
a toy, seeing the effect these prearranged receptions had on pierre,
at one of the post stations he overtook a convoy of russian wounded.
“at one draught, or he loses!” shouted a fourth.
at one another, and all pressed toward the exit from the bridge.
at one another.
at once, when she heard the young man’s discreet steps approaching
at once transferred to the guards as a cornet, had been educated from
   at nighttime in the moon’s fair glow
atmosphere of an army, announcing the approach of something decisive
atmosphere of a large and active town which is always so attractive to a
atmosphere made itself so strongly felt in the rostóvs’ house as at
atmosphere characteristic of homes where there are very young and very
at markóv, probably expecting markóv to pick it up for him, and how
“at least, change your coiffure,” said the little princess.
at last seizing a soldier by his collar he forced him to answer.
at last anna mikháylovna, still with the same expression, pale but
at kutúzov’s.
at krems excited but not weary, with dispatches from dokhtúrov to
at irregular intervals as before, followed by one or two cannon shots,
at intervals the bugle calls and the shouts of the enemy could be heard
at intervals, and the bullets passed somewhere in the fog singing in
a thud. denísov rode past him, leaning back and shouting something.
a threatening gesture. “if the purse isn’t found i’ll flog you,
at home, they had not yet gone to bed. the young people, after returning
at home again. he felt that he had grown up and matured very much. his
at his partner with a merry and triumphant air, suddenly stamped with
at his own sensibility, when princess mary entered. he hurriedly took a
at his hesitation and, trying to arouse his former devotional feeling,
at his estate. as regularity is a prime condition facilitating activity,
a third, count arakchéev, if his nerves were not too weak.”
at him. after this volley the regimental commander clutched at his leg;
at her timidly over his spectacles, and like a hare surrounded by hounds
at her reproachfully. “and who is it she takes after?” thought the
at her reflection in the glass. “she flatters me,” thought the
at five in the morning it was still quite dark. the troops of the
at first prince andrew read with his eyes only, but after a while,
at first irregularly at varying intervals—trata...tat—and then more
at first impossible to enter the drawing room door for the crowd of
at first he heard the sound of indifferent voices, then anna
a tête-à-tête talk with the friend of her childhood, princess anna
a terrible thing! quelle terrible chose que la guerre!”
at eight o’clock kutúzov rode to pratzen at the head of the fourth
at eight o’clock in the morning
at ease by him, “but i hope i have not offended you. i always make it
at each alternate step; and in time to this, with stern but varied
at dólokhov and his eyes dropped, the something terrible and monstrous
at dinner, conversation turned on pierre’s marriage.
at dinner anna mikháylovna talked the whole time about the war news
at daybreak on the seventeenth, a french officer who had come with
at dawn on the sixteenth of november, denísov’s squadron, in
“at boss zides, captain,” he heard the voice of the colonel, who,
at balls, amiably smiling in the society of the most brilliant women,
at bald hills with his wife. this pleasure will be but a brief one,
at bald hills, prince nicholas andréevich bolkónski’s estate, the
at bagratión over each other’s shoulders, as if he were some rare
at a soldier who lay prone, with blood on his uncovered head. the
at a soldier in the ranks of the third company in a greatcoat of bluish
at any rate his light-blue eyes gazed for about two seconds into
at any of them but smiling on all, as if graciously allowing each the
at anna pávlovna’s, that it would be difficult to get rid of anna
a tall, stout, and proud-looking woman, with a round-faced smiling
at all like the conduct of a great man!”
at all. he said to me, ‘i am sorry i can do so little for you, dear
at all as it really was. rostóv was a truthful young man and would on
at all as i ran,” thought prince andrew—“not as we ran, shouting
at a full gallop so that he outstripped the others. ahead, the enemy was
at a command, everyone began to run.
at?”
as ze sanctity of its alliances...” he spoke this last word with
“as you see,” he said.
“as you please... really... i think so... but as you please,” said
as young people often do. “no, i am too happy now to spoil my
as young bezúkhov! yes, i pity him from my heart, and shall try to give
as you may, always remain the same backs and foreheads.”
as you and princess mary call it, are the chief source of all error and
asylums, and schools were to be established on all the estates. some of
as with his feet.
as when a window is opened a whiff of fresh air from the fields enters
as were all the words he spoke that day, and count ilyá looked joyfully
as well as that the french were outflanking our left. the general
as we are masters of ulm, we cannot be deprived of the advantage of
as was his custom when at home—taking leave of a good-looking,
a suffering child and to wring her little hands even with some
a stuffy room, so a whiff of youthfulness, energy, and confidence of
a strange feeling of exasperation and yet of respect for this man’s
a strange caprice of his employer’s was admitted to table though the
“as to your business,” prince andrew continued, addressing borís,
a stout major was pacing up and down the line, and regardless of the
a story, heard from her aunt but finished in her own way, which she
a storm at the square, cut his way in, slashed right and left, how his
as though running away from some danger, and, making long, quick strides
as this Ápsheron battalion marched by, the red-faced milorádovich,
as they watched their young people executing their newly learned steps,
as they said in moscow society. he seemed to be condescending to
as they have heard it described by others, and as sounds well, but not
as they enjoyed their rhine wine, sauté, and ices, and however they
as the right flank would probably not be able to withstand the enemy’s
“as there’s no one to fall in love with on campaign, he’s fallen
as their officer—all looked at their commander like children in an
as the guest of honor, to enter first. bagratión was embarrassed, not
“as the enemy’s left wing rests on wooded hills and his right
as the bearers, among whom was anna mikháylovna, passed the young man
as the “angel incarnate.”
a star-shaped light. at one side of the table was a small carpet with
“a staff officer was here a minute ago, but skipped off,” said an
assured himself from the way rostóv looked at it that his coat had been
assuming quite the pose of a society woman (heaven knows when and where
assumed a dignified expression, which with characteristic tact she had
as soon as the singing was over, another and another toast was proposed
as soon as nicholas entered, he was enfolded in that poetic atmosphere
as soon as he learned that the russian army was in such a hopeless
as soon as all is over,” and prince vasíli sighed to intimate what he
as something generally known. but it was the first time he had heard
assigned to the commander of the pávlograd regiment in which rostóv
assigned to cavalry-captain denísov, the squadron commander, known
assiduity of its commander the regiment, in comparison with others that
as she was crossing the anteroom she saw through the window a carriage
as she sat in her room. but owing to the superstition that the fewer
as she rose to go to her own room.
as she named the empress, anna pávlovna’s face suddenly assumed an
as she became animated the prince looked at her more and more sternly,
as serene as if all this were happening at home awaiting peaceful
as reported by the division commanders, ostermann and sedmorétzki, and
as possible to conceal his own part in the improvements that had been
“a splendid soldier, splendid! ‘what am i attached to!’ ha, ha,
“a splendid reply!” said napoleon. “young man, you will go far!”
a space like a street was left between each two lines of troops. the
a son of nicholas bolkónski, i shall be ashamed!”
a soldier was driving, and a woman enveloped in shawls sat behind the
a soldier’s cross, equally shabby cadet’s riding breeches lined with
a soldier on the march is hemmed in and borne along by his regiment as
as often happens in early youth, especially to one who leads a lonely
as often happens after long sleeplessness and long anxiety, he was
as much self-confidence as if he were addressing school children—that
a smile that broadened his round face more and more, prepared the
a smile of joy and satisfaction lit up her eager face.
a smile he could not repress as he recalled his reception at brünn.
a smell of perfume, and put it to nesvítski’s nose.
“as may happen,” said rostóv.
as many persons are to me—father, sister, wife—those dearest to
a small reception, and just see how badly i am dressed.” and she
as long as i live.”
a slipper for his left foot. with a childlike smile of embarrassment,
a slightly contemptuous smile, he said: “yes, there are many stories
asleep. prince andrew felt sorry for his sister.
asleep, nor even remain in one place, but had to jump up and pace the
ask you to put the money on your cards,” replied dólokhov. “don’t
“ask the count to come to me.”
asking forgiveness?”
asking.” but dying was also dreadful.
“ask him to wait,” and the sound was heard of a chair being pushed
ask himself. it was as if the thread of the chief screw which held his
ask forgiveness.
asked weyrother several times to repeat words he had not clearly heard
asked to see the portrait of the aunt’s husband on the box lid.
asked to play on the clavichord. anatole, laughing and in high spirits,
asked to give up all he possessed.
asked. “they say old maids have a mania for matchmaking, and though i
asked the son.
asked the prince’s permission to ride round the position to see the
asked the italian how he stood russian climate. the italian’s
asked rostóv, with a contemptuous smile.
asked permission to be present at the battle out of curiosity. the
asked one of the ladies.
asked natásha, so seriously and excitedly that it was evident that what
asked him to tell the emperor. what do you think he replied? ‘but, my
asked and answered at the same instant. he was alone in the middle of a
ask; but to prove my devotion to you and how i respect your father’s
as i write?
“as i was saying to you, andrew, be kind and generous as you always
as it was too far to the left flank for him to have time to go there
“as it flies past me, daddy, the ball i mean,” said a young soldier
as is usually the case with people meeting after a prolonged separation,
as i remember nikólenka. him—i just shut my eyes and remember,
as in a spoiled child, a continual consciousness of her charming defect,
a sin, a great sin, it is hatred of that vile woman!” almost shrieked
as impracticable, he arranged for the erection of large
a sign of approaching anger. “i was forgetting... do you wish it
as if to reassure prince andrew.
as if to explain such a question.
as if to ascertain whether his father’s habits had changed since he
as if stirred to his heart’s core and himself regretting and laughing
as if she had to give some final necessary instructions.
as if she had asked him to do it.
as if running a sword through an invisible foe, and glaring savagely
as if he felt a little confused before his son. “now, if you would
as if guessing what it was about.
as if flinging something to the ground, the drummer—a lean, handsome
as if continuing a conversation the subject of which had often been
as if at times there radiated from them shafts of warm light)—were
as if astonished at the word. “well, you see, i’m building. i mean
as i do not intend to be at your house again for reasons you know
aside with his arm, said in a breathless voice,
aside and turning sharply away; but rising immediately, he paced up and
a shot, and our troops could be seen hurrying to the crossing.
a short pause, “but everyone lives in his own way. you lived for
as his own. what also conduced to bagratión’s being selected as
as he would have done to a stranger.
as he was leaving the battery, firing was heard on the left also, and
as he sat on the sloping ledge. as he began slipping down, his head and
as he said this prince andrew was less than ever like that bolkónski
as he said this he rose, went to his sister, and, stooping, kissed
as he rode by.
a shell burst in the midst of that dense throng, killing some and
as he liked, now in petersburg i hear he has been doing such terrible
as he lay back in his armchair, looking in another direction.
as he had been accustomed to from childhood. besides it was pleasant,
as he felt himself to be at that moment. he was conscious that here
as he expected he was appointed an adjutant to the governor general of
as he closed his eyes his ears seemed filled with the rattle of the
as he approached, a ringing shot issued from it deafening him and his
as he always did when at the front, solemn and stern. then came the word
ashamed of himself, he said, as if merely asking his father to let him
ashamed; he felt that he was occupying someone else’s place here
“as far as the service goes he is quite punctilious, your excellency;
as far as moscow and to stay with him there. meeting a comrade at
as ever. a solitary tallow candle burned in the anteroom.
a seventy-pound weight were tied to it. he could run no more. the
a servant. from there they passed into another room. a man in strange
a sense of disgust the minutest details of this humiliating scene he
as elsewhere, he was surrounded by an atmosphere of subservience to
as clear as day, and can go so far astray. that is the only thing
a schoolboy who is told to repeat a lesson he has not learned. spots
ascended the carpeted stairs.
as borís. “count! i am wounded in my right hand” (and he showed his
as a veranda.
as author of the military plan, argued that bonaparte might easily
as a true hussar in this battle, had been wasted. their squadron
as a petitioner on behalf of this young man. you see...” but
as a mark of their gratitude for the benefits he had conferred on them,
as a man recently returned from abroad, in a political conversation in
as always happens when women lead lonely lives for any length of time
as a friend that frees the soul grown weary in the labors of virtue
as a frenchman would speak after spending about a year in russia.
as a dense cloud of smoke arose from it. the hussars had succeeded in
as a child, there was no longer in her singing that comical, childish,
a rustle of starched petticoats and the whispering and laughter of
a rule to speak out... well, what answer am i to take? will you come to
artless smile, she had met him in secluded passages.
artillery sentry was pacing up and down; he stood at attention when the
artillerymen, túshin, and the cadet exchanged silent glances as they
artillerymen, some of whom were fighting, while others, having abandoned
artilleryman, wiping away the blood with his coat sleeve, as if
artilleryman to prince andrew. “not like your honor!”
artillery company, a head and shoulders taller and twice as broad
arrived from russia. with this object he intended to meet the regiment;
arrival, thought in another way. of course, she, a handsome young woman
arrival of young prince andrew and his wife was daily expected, but
arranging a dinner in honor of prince bagratión at the english club.
arrangements to the minutest detail remain the same.”
arrangements of the house, he interrupted himself:
arrangement of the festival in honor of bagratión, for few men knew
arranged and how nice it all was? there’s uncle shinshín’s brother
aroused him. he started and opened his eyes.
around them cannon balls were flying, of which he was aware not so
around him. an infantryman came to the fire, squatted on his heels, held
(“arnauts” was the tsarévich’s favorite expression when he was in
army. you have brought your army corps to pultúsk, routed: here it is
army.... you are in a position to seize its baggage and artillery.
army was very favorable.
army’s campfires dimly glowing in the fog, could be seen behind him;
army, and the member of the hofkriegsrath who had arrived the previous
army, and in the night from the nineteenth to the twentieth, the whole
army, and even napoleon himself with his staff, were not on the far side
arm wavered still more with the strain. one hand moved as if to clutch
arms on the table and began to read. after reading a few lines, he
arm’s length, apparently afraid of shooting himself with it. his left
arms and the hope of future triumph. and he was not the only man to
arm. he began to laugh.
arkhárovs; they have a party.”
arithmetic, when rising from his chair he would walk away from her,
a ring, he made the sign of the cross over him with a gesture evidently
   a rhipheus at home, a caesar in the field!
“are you ready?” he asked his wife, looking past her.
“are you not ashamed to deprive us of your charming wife?”
are young and i am old. i should like to help you as far as lies in my
“are you mad? you have twice been ordered to retreat, and you...”
“are you living with your mother?”
“are you going to count cyril vladímirovich, my dear?” said the
are you dumb?’ he shouted. still i remained silent. and what do you
are wrapped up in you, and that in spite of the distance separating us
are within sight of the enemy and he wishes to profit by the opportunity
are we to find suvórovs now? je vous demande un peu,” *(4) said he,
are very pale!” said princess mary in alarm, running with her soft,
are they doing? what are they doing?” he murmured to himself, still
are there,” said the officer, pointing to the village of hosjeradek,
are the french!’ murat, seeing that all is lost if the sergeant is
are taken to the field marshal’s room, for he likes to do everything
a reproach to everyone. now tell me, count, was it right, was it
a reply unnecessary. she smilingly waited. all the time the story was
are now two russians, milorádovich, and dokhtúrov, and there would be
are not many left of us old friends! that’s why i so value your
are, monsieur pierre!”
are many stories of his getting to know an officer in just such a chance
are here?”
are distributed. why has fate given you two such splendid children?
are clever, you are well educated. and what have you done with all these
are childwen of the dust... but one falls in love and one is a god, one
are being deceived, my instinct tells me of negotiations with france and
are—at the heart of affairs and of the world—is the talk all of
a real one, but that they would talk of that later. princess mary was
are all stupid; but i know this: an illegitimate son cannot inherit...
architect’s attention to the sound of the prince’s footsteps.
architect not to go to the prince with his report.
archduke’s as good as another, as you know) and even if it is only
archduke, inspected the allied army of eighty thousand men.
archduchess also wished to see him. he did not know whom to answer, and
a rage) and called for the company commander.
a quite unexpected, chance of saving the army. on receiving the news
À propos of marriages: do you know that a while ago that universal
apron, which symbolized strength and purity; then of the unexplained
apron under the leather hood of the vehicle. prince andrew rode up
apron, such as the others wore, was put on him: he was given a trowel
aprons like the rhetor’s and holding swords in their hands pointed at
apráksins’ i heard a lady asking, ‘is that the famous prince
apráksina...” and then, again rustling, pass into the anteroom, put
approaching enemy farther off. at the same instant the sun came fully
approaching departure did not prevent his amusing himself, but rather
approaching. and at that moment, though the day was still, a light gust
approached the door of the minister’s room. he felt offended, and
approached kutúzov. of kutúzov’s suite only four remained. they were
approached first, experienced the same feeling as every other man in
approached.
approach, but even in this room there now stood an empty bath, and water
appreciation of the vicomte’s epigram, pierre again broke into the
appreciate at a glance her superiority to the plain, badly dressed,
appointment to london was a promotion and that he was so to regard it.
apple, also half smiling as he looked at the handsome girl.
appearing on the skyline, which they knew to be the enemy’s troops.
appeared to him in a dream: his mother and her large white hand,
appeared, then a second and a third almost simultaneously, and at the
appeared that they had worn when under fire. rostóv watched his enemy,
appeared shy of her unquestionable and all too victorious beauty. she
appeared, quite out of keeping with his features, that seemed to deride
appeared punctually to the appointed hour. everyone sitting in this
appeared on his nose, the redness of which was evidently due to
appeared in the doorway. the general with the bandaged head bent forward
appeared. he would carry her away and then sa pauvre mère would appear
appeared from behind his company and, though he was a middle-aged man
appeared a stupid smile of glee which he seemed unable to suppress.
appeared.
appear as if he did not want any of that wine, but was mortified because
apparently the sight of them roused no pleasant feeling in véra.
apparently suffering more than the dying soldier, and he rode away.
apparently she had forgotten her age and by force of habit employed
apparently immersed in his own thoughts.
a portrait so characteristic of the original as to be amusing.
apologizing for the state of his gun.
apologize to an old and honorable officer? whatever bogdánich may
apologize.”
a policeman and the bear back to back and put the bear into the moyka
a plan of marriage for you. it is neither more nor less than with prince
a peg on which to hang the prince’s favorite topic, he looked
a partner, and the old men began smilingly to talk about poland and the
apartments assigned to prince vasíli.
a particular glamour and glad keenness of impression to everything that
apart from myself.”
any women—countesses or cooks—who were not venal. i have not yet met
anything wrong in my behavior. but i’ll just tell mamma how you are
anything, when suddenly the well-known whispering of mademoiselle
anything to say, say it. these two things can be done together,” he
anything might happen, only not that.
anything like it. she believed it could be, but did not understand it.
anything. if it be god’s will to prove thee in the duties of marriage,
anything. here is a letter to prince vasíli, and here is money. write
anything for his happiness! and my affairs are in such a bad way that my
anything, except only for permission, after the blow she had received,
anything else.... you have not been ordered to return and have not been
anything. do you know i have sent for pierre? the count,” pointing to
anything, dólokhov, looking straight in his face, said slowly and
anything, but was only conscious of her stern father’s withered face
any the worse off. in siberia they lead the same animal life, and the
anyone who wanted to see him could come the hundred miles from moscow to
anyone. they wished to administer the sacrament of unction.”
anyone in particular, began to say how difficult it was to carry out
anyone if he is in disfavor. now come here.”
anyone flogged or sent to siberia—and still less for your serfs. if
anyone else had a right to criticize what the empress desired or was
anyone else does the same, i will pay him a hundred imperials. do you
anyone, but you know it yourself.”
anyone, and so you don’t deserve to have them.”
“any news from mack?”
any moment the emperor may see them.... but no, these must be only a
any moment.)
any clever conversation that was to be heard. seeing the self-confident
an unexpected and tenderly paternal way.
antónov.”
antichrist—i really believe he is antichrist—i will have nothing
anteroom with him.
antechamber experienced the same feeling of respect and even fear when
answer that voice and went on dreaming of his triumphs. the dispositions
answer than the one prince andrew gave to this naïve question.
answers to these questions, as was only too evident, did not interest
answered the soldier. prince andrew took out his purse and gave the
answered the general.
answered pierre, trying to remember who this young man was.
answered lavrúshka. “i know by now, if he wins he comes back early to
answered him either by a brief but appropriate remark—showing that it
answered her, as he had the countess, only in monosyllables. the other
answered.”
answer. at last he moved up to pierre and, taking the kerchief that lay
an outsider is out of place here.... no, don’t distress yourself....
another who wished to get away. with his head bent, and his big feet
another voice, from a man of medium height with clear blue eyes,
another two minutes and it is certain death,” thought each one.
another time he interrupted, saying:
another, they all gave, and transmitted, orders as to how to proceed,
another, the red, stout nesvítski, lay on a bed with his arms under his
another’s faces and speak to one another. besides the soldiers who
another pie but felt shy, and therefore pretended to be examining the
another of the precepts—that of reforming the human race—and had
another, more important, subordination, which made this tight-laced,
“another ismail comrade,” said he. “a brave officer! are you
another hussar also rushed toward the horse, but bondarénko had already
another, hardly able to suppress their laughter.
another group was at the tea table. pierre wished to join the former,
another group.
another five days passed, and then the young prince nicholas andréevich
another, dying, stepping over the dying and killing one another, only to
another company, a lucky one for not all the companies had vodka,
another candle. still lower, beyond the turn of the staircase, one
another, a younger voice, interrupted him: “afraid or not, you can’t
another and soon the whole battalion ran forward shouting “hurrah!”
another. all became silent and turned to look at the pale tear-worn anna
another—a childlike, kindly, even rather silly look, which seemed to
another.”
another.
“an order to who?” asked the colonel morosely.
an orderly’s charge, and he felt the blood rush to his heart with
an orderly, or a townsman was carried through the waves of infantry;
an opportunity to express his doubts.
an old powdered manservant who was sitting in the antechamber rose
an old friend.
an oath of fidelity to the laws of the order. the candles were then
annoyance. “good luck to you!”
announce him, but, changing his mind, came back and stooped to kiss the
“annette, for heaven’s sake don’t refuse me,” the countess
anna pávlovna’s two years before. there were also present a very
anna pávlovna’s soiree. the matter was mentioned to the emperor, an
anna pávlovna’s reception was in full swing. the spindles hummed
anna pávlovna smiled and promised to take pierre in hand. she knew his
anna pávlovna’s drawing room was gradually filling. the highest
anna pávlovna’s “at home” was like the former one, only the
anna pávlovna’s alarm was justified, for pierre turned away from the
anna pávlovna in dismay detained him with the words: “do you know the
anna pávlovna had already managed to speak to lise about the match she
anna pávlovna gave him her shriveled hand to kiss and introduced him to
anna pávlovna frowned. mortemart, hippolyte’s friend, addressed him
anna pávlovna disapproved.
anna pávlovna continued to give on free evenings the same kind of
anna pávlovna almost closed her eyes to indicate that neither she nor
    * anna pávlovna.
anna mikháylovna, who always knew everything that passed in the house,
anna mikháylovna was already embracing her and weeping. the countess
anna mikháylovna turned up her eyes, and profound sadness was depicted
anna mikháylovna took off her gloves and, occupying the position she
anna mikháylovna, though her circumstances had improved, was still
anna mikháylovna’s was the most distinct.
anna mikháylovna sighed deeply.
anna mikháylovna shook her head.
anna mikháylovna’s face expressed a consciousness that the decisive
anna mikháylovna sat down beside him, with her own handkerchief wiped
anna mikháylovna paused and waited for him to come up.
anna mikháylovna opened the door. her face wore the proud expression
anna mikháylovna looked at véra and paused. the countess pressed her
anna mikháylovna instantly guessed her intention and stooped to be
anna mikháylovna, in a few words, told her the contents of the letter,
anna mikháylovna came out last. she approached pierre with slow, quiet
anna mikháylovna.
an inspection anywhere in the heart of russia.
an inn in the village which the officers frequented. rostóv rode up to
an indescribable charm of sorrow and self-forgetfulness that her father
an immediate answer. prince vasíli had brought his son with the evident
animation of the past or the future. it was as if prince andrew would
animated, and handsome, with his hand bandaged. in the study were four
animal went when excited. bending his foaming muzzle to his chest, his
animal. count ilyá rostóv, laughing and repeating the words, “make
an illegitimate son, and petted and extolled when he was the best
“a nice little hot torch for the infantry! good luck to you, fellow
an hour’s delay they at last moved on, descending the hill. the fog
an hour later, tíkhon came to call princess mary to the old prince;
an hour and a half later most of the players were but little interested
angry with me for coming? you have changed so, andrúsha,” she added,
angry—but i know you will not marry her. i know, heaven knows how, but
angrily pulling down his tight scarf.
angrily, came in at the other door. natásha checked her first impulse
angrily blowing his nose. hardly had prince andrew gone when the study
angrily at him. bondarchúk’s horse swerved and galloped past.
angrily and disrespectfully at kozlóvski.
angling, while his grandson, with shirt sleeves rolled up, handled the
anger he did not condescend to notice, and said: “i think you were
angered the countess when it was not properly cleaned, turned as loosely
anger and walking up to the regiment wished to find a further excuse for
an eye on me! very well then! get along with you!’ so he writes the
an expression of perplexity, turned round to milorádovich as if seeking
an explanation, but meeting the latter’s impressive but meaningless
an exemplary officer of twenty-two years’ service, who had never been
an excruciating pain in his arm, for which he could find no satisfactory
an entreaty, a threat, and above all conviction that she would herself
a need to escape from it by some strange, and usually cruel, action.
“and you won’t feel ashamed to write to him?”
“and you too!”
“and you’re still the same diplomatist! but that’s not the
and your capital!’ the one general whom we all loved, schmidt, you
and young people are rarely capable of it. his hearers expected a story
and you, mon cousin, seem to consider me a perfect fool,” said the
“and you?” he asked dólokhov, but as soon as he had asked the
“and you didn’t see that everybody is packing up?”
“and you? are you going to have lunch too? they feed you quite
and you.”
and yet long to cross that line, and know that sooner or later it must
and yet be happy....”
and wrote a few words on a large sheet of paper folded in four).
and with this object offered a three days’ truce on condition that
and with the familiarity and easy grace peculiar to him, he raised the
“and without holding on to anything. is that right?”
and without awaiting a reply, prince andrew rose and left the table.
and with his hand at the salute rode up to the general.
and with baritone notes in his voice, new to borís, pointing to his own
and with a hooked nose. then came two more, and many more running
and with a furtive glance at his son’s face, the count went out of the
and with a bow to them both he went out.
and wish you to have as good an opinion of me. don’t upset yourself,
and wished he could tell what, if anything, this man was thinking
and wiping their faces with their cambric handkerchiefs.
and will then inherit everything under the will? and if the will and
“and will she soon be confined?” and shaking his head reproachfully
“and why the deuce are we going to fight bonaparte?” remarked
“and why is it?”
“and why do you serve?”
“and why didn’t you simply come straight to me as to a friend? i
“and why didn’t you do it at seven in the morning? you ought to have
“and why are they stopping? there’s no proper order!” said the
“and why are children born to such men as you? if you were not a
“and who will inherit his wealth?” he added in a whisper.
and who was called tit. he was saying, “tit, i say, tit!”
and whom borís addressed turned round crossly and told him bolkónski
“and who has told you what is bad for another man?” he asked.
“and who are you?” cried the officer, turning on him with tipsy
and while kutúzov was turning managed to make a grimace and then assume
and which had always opened so quietly, burst noisily open and banged
and where to shoot,” he said with an unnaturally gentle smile.
“and where is lise?” he asked, answering her question only by a
and wheels began to revolve faster and faster, levers and cogwheels to
and what to expect after it beyond the grave! how happy and calm i
“and what is she so pleased about?” thought nicholas, looking at his
and, whatever may happen to him or to me, shall never cease to love him
“and what do you think of this latest comedy, the coronation at
“and what devil made me go to that wat?” (an officer nicknamed
“and what a well-preserved man he was!” remarked the aide-de-camp.
“and what about his character?” asked the regimental commander.
and went to the door.
and went out of the corridor.
and went out. natásha had put on one spurred boot and was just getting
and went in at the open door. there was no one in the anteroom; empty
“and we, my dear boy! it’s terrible! i was wrong to laugh at mack,
and well informed foregathered when the news began to arrive in
and way of life.
and, waving her thin arms from under the woolen shawl, cried:
and watched his opponent’s face, evidently thinking about the game as
and was therefore out of sorts, a state of mind which with her always
and was just putting his question to a soldier when his attention
and was going to tuck up the other trouser leg to save this stranger the
and was crossing himself with his right hand, turning his eyes upward
and was a stranger there. in his person, honor was shown to a simple
and warmly pressing his hand looked affectionately over his spectacles
and, walking backwards before the company, jerked his shoulders and
and wait for her, she went silently toward the door that everyone was
and voices. this class of guests and members sat in certain habitual
and virtue than mere words. this chamber with what you see therein
and virtue, and thereby try with all our might to combat the evil which
and until you have ceased to love the woman of your choice and have seen
and unreasonable than a little child, who, playing with the parts of a
and unexpectedly again began to cry.
and two or three friends—you among them—and as for the rest i only
and triumph.
and ‘to siberia!’” said berg with a sagacious smile. “i knew i
and to pierre, glancing at him again.
and took hold of the commander’s stirrup, almost leaning against him.
and thrill of suspense usual at such moments. outside the house, beyond
and threw them round the little girl who had run in.
and three pairs of gloves, and then the grand master addressed him. he
and thoughtfully shaking his head. did he fear going to the war, or was
and this “well!” sounded coldly ironic, as if he were saying: “now
“and this is gratitude—this is recognition for those who have
“and they said kutúzov was blind of one eye?”
and they disappeared into the darkness with their load.
and they awoke in him astonishment at the genius of his hero, a feeling
... and the wish, which constitutes the emperor’s sole and absolute
and the whole secret lies in the terrible truth that she is a depraved
and the visitors try to guess from these glances who, or what, they are
and the two friends told each other of their doings, the one of his
and the two emperors were living with their suites, households, and
and the traveler became absorbed in it. pierre looked at him. all at
and the tramp of horses’ hoofs were heard. kutúzov and his suite were
and the talkative dolgorúkov, turning now to borís, now to prince
and the staff captain rose and turned away from rostóv.
and the second aim, that of purifying and regenerating himself, did not
and the same look. in the middle of a dull and halting conversation,
and the rewards sent to the army are innumerable. though he is a
and there too sat the members of the family, and pierre and hélène,
“and there’s nothing for you to say. i shall speak to him myself,”
and there is nothing to thank me for. no one has ever complained yet of
and there in the coffin was the same face, though with closed eyes.
“and there hasn’t been anyone in the room except the lieutenant and
and the reading of the letter began. after a brief description of
and the rattling of carriage wheels seemed to fill his ears, and now
“and the prisoners he killed in africa? that was horrible!” said the
and the prince began explaining all the blunders which, according to
and the pistols loaded, nesvítski went up to pierre.
and the owner of the manly voice, evidently an infantry officer,
and the others who did not approve of the plan of attack, were
“and the other one is not here. they’ve been telling tales,” he
and the orders he gave them and, to his surprise, found that no orders
and the old countess were especially disturbed, and to a lesser degree
and the old cavalry captain, kírsten, shouted enthusiastically and no
and then to call him out, reckoning on fédya not fighting because he
“and then, old fellow, he gives him one in the teeth with the butt
“and then of course my family has also to be considered,” prince
and then he suddenly stopped and performed some new and unexpected
and then calmly and seriously sat back in his chair. anna pávlovna
and then at the other.
and the munching of the lieutenant.
and the men’s at the other.
and the latter—unconscious that he was being reflected in the hussar
and the jingle of their weapons and saw their horses, their figures, and
and the glory that awaited him.
and the general in white, accompanied by the suite, walked between the
“and the fete at the english ambassador’s? today is wednesday. i
and the feeling of energy with which the troops had started began to
and the distinguished dignitary who bore the title of “collector
and the disgrace of having lost two guns and yet remaining alive present
and the difficult names of villages. weyrother complied and dohktúrov
and the crimean estate, in order to make it possible: all of which
and the count turned to the cook, who, with a shrewd and respectful
and the conversation again turned on the war, on bonaparte, and the
and the constant gleam of her white teeth, thought that they were in a
and the consequent impossibility of a speedy emancipation.
and the commander, turning to look at the adjutant, directed his jerky
and the cannon, under the horses’ hoofs and between the wagon wheels,
and the burning of an arm with a ruler as a proof of love did not seem
and the brilliance of the bright sunshine merged in a single joyous and
and the boyish face rostóv, breathless with excitement and hope, was
and the allowance to the three princesses; about 15,000 was given in
“and that would be splendid,” said pierre.
and that the whole army had surrendered at ulm proved to be correct.
and that the richest peasants (who formed the deputation) had begun
and that’s how it is with me. À demain, mon cher.” *
“and that other one with him, the austrian, looked as if he were
and that if a letter reached the grand duke in command of the guards
and that her husband was a cross laid upon her by god. prince vasíli
and that daredevil after her!” said anna mikháylovna, wishing to show
“and tell mr. dólokhov that i won’t forget him—he may be quite
and tear whatever came to his hand. “why did i tell her that ‘je
and tears, till at last somebody else was asked to read it.”
and taking nesvítski’s arm he left zherkóv, who did not know what to
and, taking natásha’s hand, kissed it.
and swallowed the cold snow, his lips quivered but his eyes, still
and suddenly the whole world centered for him on anticipation of the
and suddenly seemed to grow very merry.
and suddenly determines to speak out.
and suddenly began to cry.
and suddenly, as if he had studied her sufficiently and had formed a
and strength. he was continually traveling through the three provinces
and strange to say nicholas felt that he could not help taking up a
and stopped near him.
and stooped glass in hand over the infant.
and stood still in the dim light beneath the curtain as if not wishing
and stood, hanging her head.
and still the same and in the same place. no, it can’t be! surely it
and still fewer men would be so well able and willing to make up out of
“and so you’ve had him educated abroad, prince vasíli, haven’t
“and so you think napoleon will manage to get an army across?” asked
“and so you had to go through that too!”
and sought the acquaintance of only those above him in position and
“and so they are writing from potsdam already?” he said, repeating
and so the anecdote ended. though it was unintelligible why he had told
and so sparkling their eyes. sometimes the best of the pupils, of whom
and so said the youths and maidens themselves as they danced till they
and sometimes like a log floating down the river, an officers’ or
and sometimes laughed. nearest of all to the commander in chief walked
and sometimes flung the exercise book away.
and solemn, and awakening in the men an unusual curiosity. on the day of
“and so he is! quite blind!”
and so further increased the fame of these dances. what distinguished
and social topics were ended and the time had come for intimate
and social tact,” thought he; “been proud of my house, in which she
and sit. this morning i turned them all out and now look, it’s full
and sinfulness?” he paused again. “who art thou? thou dreamest that
and simply, “mr. shítov—a man of great merit”—this of the man
and silver of the men’s epaulets; servants in scarlet liveries moved
and silent when the talk related to any topic that had no direct bearing
and sighing disdainfully, he again changed his position.
and show you what kind of rivet to use.”
and shown such unaffected familiarity in intercourse with everybody both
“and showed me a letter in which the parade of the french in vienna
and shouted to the musicians to play faster. faster, faster, and faster;
“and should not justify your confidence and the honor you have done
and she won’t say anything to mamma. nicholas will tell her himself,
and she with him, that there was quite a scandal and that that’s why
and she smiled her ecstatic smile.
“and she’s in love with borís already. just fancy!” said the
and she’s even in my way. you know i always was a savage, and now am
and she set off at a run along the passage.
and she found them on my table and said she’d show them to mamma, and
and she began to cry again because he had such a noble soul.
and several other less noteworthy persons.
and see the standard flapping against its staff.
and seeing that the elder visitor was not listening, he turned to the
and seeing her severe face said: “well, good-by, countess,” and
and secured their release by heavy payments. he did not know that the
and, scowling, he gave nicholas just such a look as he had given pierre
and scented myself.”
and scarcely breathing, watched from her ambush with sparkling eyes.
and scapegraces of petersburg.
and saying something in their gypsy accents. nicholas understood that it
and say, “i am so delighted... mamma’s health... and countess
and saw that the lamp stood on a black table on which lay an open book.
and salt of hospitality, as, according to his understanding of his
and salt and an icon of saint peter and saint paul, asking permission,
andrúsha—the slender mischievous boy who had been her playfellow in
andrúsha!...” said she, putting her hand in her reticule but not yet
and running so lightly, frightened rostóv. he seized his pistol and,
and rostóv got up and went wandering among the campfires, dreaming of
andrew, whom borís was expecting, entered the room. prince andrew, who
andrew went out with him.
andrew was natural and pleasant. others, the majority, disliked him and
andrew was in and borís was shown into a large hall probably formerly
andrew was galloping along in a post chaise enjoying the feelings of a
andrew, told how bonaparte wishing to test markóv, our ambassador,
andrew, “that all the atrocities of the french army (i nearly said of
andrew struck the high road along which the russian army was moving with
andrew’s presence. he was ashamed to express his new masonic views,
andrew slowly, not taking his eyes off his wife.
andrew shook himself as if waking up, and his face assumed the look it
andrew...” she said timidly after a moment’s silence, “i have a
andrew read the same mild reproach he had read on the face of his dead
andrew, paying no more heed to the general who ran after him imploring
andrew made his way up to the battery from which the staff officer had
andrew. “look here, my dear fellow, get from kozlóvski all the
andrew. “i wish you good luck and success, gentlemen!” he added and
andrew... is father’s way of treating religious subjects. i don’t
andrew in his boyhood, helped pierre out of his carriage, said that the
“andrew, if you had faith you would have turned to god and asked him
andrew?’ i did indeed.” she laughed. “he is so well received
“andrew, i bless you with this icon and you must promise me you will
andrew, “i am only surprised at your opinion of bonaparte. you
andrew had gone and made the sign of the cross in his direction. from
andrew had already heard from his wife in the presence of others some
andrew felt that something gave way in his soul and that he was guilty
andrew felt a pleasant sense of repose among luxurious surroundings such
andrew entered the passage. kutúzov himself, he was told, was in the
“andrew, don’t!” said princess mary.
andrew? don’t forget that she has grown up and been educated in
andrew did not tell his father that he would no doubt live a long time
andrew did not speak; he was both pleased and displeased that his father
andrew came up, stroked her hair, and asked if she felt rested after
andrew. “besides, in the actions of a statesman one has to distinguish
andrew as one of themselves, an honor they did not extend to many. from
andrew a reliable correspondent to whom he could pour out the bile he
andrew apparently knew this as well as tíkhon; he looked at his watch
andrew, “and at anna pávlovna’s they listen to me. and that stupid
“andrew, already!” said the little princess, turning pale and
andrew.
andrew.
andrew.
and returned a glove pierre had dropped; the doctors became respectfully
and respectfully that the prince gave him a searching glance.
and respect as few hardhearted men would have aroused. although he was
and resignation to the will of god. “if you do not understand these
“andré,” said his wife, addressing her husband in the same
and replacing their purses and pocketbooks, entered the ballroom. first
and remained so for some minutes. piteous, helpless, animal moans came
and relations had been given to understand that the fate of the young
and regarded as the key to the position. he saw over the mist that in
and refined expression on the faces of those present he was always
and really he only ran a few steps alone. one soldier moved and then
and really another french soldier, trailing his musket, ran up to
and put the matter before the emperor,” said princess anna
and prove my devotion to his majesty the emperor and to russia!”
and proudly around while bagratión spoke to his son.
and promised to write to him and guide him in his new activity.
and profligate life, though i did not like it and did not want to,”
and princess mary tried, but could not manage, to be cordial to her new
and prince dolgorúkov rapidly but indistinctly explained weyrother’s
and prince andrew, with others fatally wounded, was left to the care of
and prince andrew after giving directions about his departure went to
and, pressing pierre’s hand, he went out.
and pressed him against the railings, and all he could do was to smile.
and pierre, anxiously trying to remember whether he had done anything
and paused facing her at the foot of the sofa on which she was lying.
and part were leaving these pratzen heights which he intended to attack
and particularly amiable smile.
and parted smiling, the german returning to his cowshed and rostóv
and painfully felt. my father talks of nothing but marches and
and overtook him. a sergeant of the battalion ran up and took the flag
and out of the bedroom glanced at the princess and turned away. she did
“and our share?” asked the princess smiling ironically, as if
“and our little tea table?”
and opened the door for him.
   and on the throne our titus shield.
and only turned away his eyes when the austrian chief of staff finished
and one could hear their distressing screams and groans, sometimes
and one booted foot, he advanced, while willarski held a sword to his
and on all their faces he recognized the same eagerness that filled his
and of good family and that’s all i want.”
and of course not as ‘emperor,’ it seemed to me it should be to
and now there’s dólokhov sitting in the snow with a forced smile and
“and now, in token of candor, i ask you to reveal to me your chief
and not with his eyes.
and not value her pure affection and devotion to me?” she went up
and not only at the same hour but at the same minute. with those about
and not in the habit of running, trotted awkwardly stumbling on his
and not become vehement, but almost always did become vehement, scolded,
and no connections. yet, though anatole spent tens of thousands of
and nicholas again kissed her hand.
and next balls, about theatricals, and who would meet whom, and when and
and natásha rose and went out of the room on tiptoe, like a ballet
and natásha kissed her brother and ran away.
and natásha, in the light-blue dresses they had worn at the theater,
and my life, my life,” he thought, “must be risked?”
and my father was much affected by it. he says the count was the last
and musketry ahead of him. the firing grew louder and louder.
and murat, humiliated and anxious to expiate his fault, had at once
and moved to the right; from behind it, dispersing the laggards, came
and moved along the ranks shouting. the train drivers and orderlies
and most advantageous style, like a well-garnished joint of roast beef
and more regularly and rapidly, and the action at the goldbach stream
and more attractive.
and mirth that shone in all their faces. evidently in the back rooms,
and mingling with one another. he could also, by the gleam of bayonets
“and me? would you like to kiss me?” she whispered almost inaudibly,
and merry faces. it was natásha, sónya, and pétya, who had come to
“and me, kiss me!”
and martinists, even in novíkov’s time. for a long while after he had
“and mamma pressed her!” said nicholas reproachfully.
and making pencil notes on them, and for the first two or three minutes
and making a wide sweep with his arm, amid a thunder of applause and
and majestic voice that was yet so simple! and as if in accord with
“and love of one’s neighbor, and self-sacrifice?” began pierre.
and looks of those who had seen them together. he recalled anna
and looking carelessly about him.
and looked at him closely.
and looked at her in such a way that not only could she not bear his
and little tables. during balls given at the house pierre, who did not
and littered with cards. one tormenting impression did not leave him:
“and lise, your wife?”
and like him. write and tell me how he receives you. if he is all
and like a practical petersburg lady who knows how to make the most of
and light, joyous steps. at the visitors’ request the young people
and lifted it to his lips, threw back his head, and raised his free hand
and let us talk sensibly while there is still time, be it a day or be it
and legs always fell into unnatural positions.
and leaving large sums of money with them for alms, went away to his
and kutúzov smiled in a way that seemed to say, “you are quite at
and kissing her, and then he left the room with rapid steps.
and kissed her.
and kinds of dessert, in order to send a full description of the dinner
and kámenski the latter was preferred. the general comes to us,
and julie were saying to one another. the governess kept looking round
and i won’t allow it to be said!”
“and i will tell you this,” prince andrew interrupted in a tone of
“and i was looking for you,” said natásha running out to him. “i
and ivy, with a gleam of white shoulders, glossy hair, and sparkling
“and it must seem to you,” said borís flushing slightly, but not
“and i tell you, rostóv, that you must apologize to the colonel!”
“and i tell you, don’t you dahe to do it!” shouted denísov,
and is nothing unworthy of you, but it will comfort me. promise,
and is it worth tormenting oneself, when one has only a moment of life
“and i should so like to thank uncle once for all his kindness to me
“and i should be ashamed to write to borís. i’m not going to.”
and irritation, though controlledly calm as a man is at the approach of
and irrepressibly, as water does in a creek. had the russian army been
“and i only...”
and involuntarily noticed the carefully washed seams of the scar near
and in two twists of the hand he breaks them to smithereens and installs
and into ladies’ society with an affectation of doing so against his
and interests before him! “yes, they have taken a wise decision,” he
and interesting person to the visitors and that nowhere else was the
and insignificant people. but the army, the russian army, everyone
and in proof of the conclusiveness of his opinion all the wrinkles
and in order to press them again to her lips, she slightly pushed away
and inevitably he lapsed into falsehood. if he had told the truth to his
and indulgently to smooth with it the heart of his neighbor. as to the
and indeed everybody in the room looked with a smile of pleasure at the
and in a whisper, with a strangely unsmiling face: “come to dinner
and in a way of which our last campaign can give you no idea. half the
and impossible, he again glanced timidly at her. she did not sit down
and immediately túshin, with a short pipe in the corner of his mouth
“and i might have been in his place!” thought rostóv, and hardly
and i’ll write to her myself, and we will kill the fatted calf.”
“and i know why she’d be ashamed,” said pétya, offended by
“and i?” he said; “do you think it is easier for me? i am as worn
“and i had no idea!...” exclaimed princess mary. “ah, andrew, i
“and, if your excellency will allow me to express my opinion,” he
“and if this aim coincides with yours, you may enter our brotherhood
“and if i should meet his majesty before i meet the commander in
“and if he asks about the losses?”
and i don’t now.”
“and i did not know... nicholas... my darling!...”
and i beg you all to help me. brünn’s attractions must be shown him.
“and i am still arguing with your husband. i can’t understand why he
and hurriedly removed.
    * “and hurrah for the whole world!”
and how the well-trained horse looked round unconcerned and did not
“and how she dances! what gwace!” he said again after a pause.
and how has it ended? i was against this marriage even then and foretold
and how happy i may be with such a friend and such a husband! husband?
“and how do you get on with the officers?” inquired zherkóv.
“and how could you believe he was my lover? why? because i like
and horses) had it not occurred to rostóv to flourish his whip before
and horse guards’ jacket, shouting something to a pale, white
and his visit to brünn. at the door he found a vehicle half full of
and his thoughts followed one another with extraordinary clearness and
and his one division, and even then mortier slips through your fingers!
and his lips were smiling. though the commander was occupied in giving
and his kind, intelligent face rather pale, rushed out of the shed
and his head tilting yet further back. “why is it so long?” thought
and his forehead became smooth again, he bowed his head respectfully,
and his eyebrows were lifted, then his eyebrows would descend and
and his back drawn in, slightly swinging one foot, and, with his head a
and hills in the distance—and despite the fact that the inhabitants
and he would marry her. so her future shaped itself in mademoiselle
and he wore a crumpled hussar cap stuck jauntily back on one side of his
and he walked on.
and he smiled approvingly, evidently pleased with the cadet. rostóv
and he saw above him the remote, lofty, and everlasting sky. he knew it
and he sat down again, paying no more attention to his daughter, who was
and her son. she had opportunities of sending her letters to the grand
and her short, downy, smiling lip lifted when she began to speak just as
and her look seemed to say: “well, it is your own fault.”
and her face was tearful.
and here’s the little shop where we used to buy gingerbread! can’t
and he released bolkónski’s arm to indicate that he had now quite
“and here, friend, the people are quite beggarly. there they all
and helped him. i know and understand what a spice that would add to the
and he looked on this visit to a churlish old man and a rich and ugly
and he looked at pierre with a mocking, challenging expression. he
and he left the room, followed by the low but ringing laughter of the
and he indicated with his delicate fingers what he meant by a pinch.
and he felt a nervous shudder run down his spine. but the mere thought
and he experienced tenfold the joy of living, as he had not done since
and he doesn’t care at all for julie.”
and he caught the bear, took it in his arms, lifted it from the ground,
and he amuses himself setting a policeman astride a bear! for shame,
and health. all who talked to her, and at each word saw her bright smile
and he also passed on with the wagon. then came some merry soldiers who
and he again turned to pierre.
and he again began speaking about indifferent matters, about sergéy
and having got rid of this young man who did not know how to behave, she
and, having glanced round the room, prince andrew turned to rostóv,
and having done this he rode back.
and have seen fräulein mathilde.”
and hastened to reassure him.
and hardly able to restrain his jerky movements, and from the way he
and happy though uneasy face of pierre. it seemed as if the very light
and happiness the victory had afforded him had been now left in the
and happiness... “i should wish for nothing else, nothing, if only i
and handsome young man and woman for one another. and this human feeling
and handing on to posterity of a certain important mystery... which
and hair, without looking at her eyes, with such contempt that the
and had taken him to vienna and given him the more serious commissions.
and had remained away till he was twenty. when he returned to moscow
and had more than once impressed on his daughter that michael ivánovich
and had an opinion about everything), but above all at his capacity for
and gun carriages, the tramp of horses, the crack of whips, shouts, the
and groans mingled in a general hubbub, then the firing died down.
and grieved had he chosen not to see them. these different
and good-humored laughter from the soldiers that it infected the french
and glad sparkle. prince andrew had grown thinner, paler, and more
and get away to attend to her duties as hostess. but pierre now
and galloped off. but no sooner had he left bagratión than his courage
and galloped along the line. at first he rode along the line of
and fussily in the easy chair, “how is it annette never got married?
and frowning brows stood a hundred paces away from them in his helmet
and from the different ranks some twenty men ran to the front. a
and fro, and dispatching of adjutants—was confined to the emperor’s
and frequent blushes she told him she was very sorry about their past
and frenchmen running toward it. higher up stood some russian infantry,
and for the issue of the whole battle. “but be that what it may,”
and, flushed and smiling, plumped down on the floor. the countess was
and flask, and swung his heavy person easily into the saddle.
and fighting, not at all as the gunner and the frenchman with frightened
and fencing from the village.
and fell on his hands. the others outstripped him.
and fell on his back. he opened his eyes, hoping to see how the struggle
and fell into the column to the measure of “left... left!” “close
and feeling at that moment. “is there anything at all behind that
and fear.
“and fancy! she refused him quite definitely!” adding, after a
and extending its neck, galloped on yet faster. hardly had the horse
and explained to them his intentions and wishes. he told them that steps
and examined him with attentive curiosity. the cossack was dead, but the
and every strap in place, and shone with cleanliness. and not only
and everybody had to serve, he took a post under his father in the
and even princess mary felt herself pleasantly made to share in these
and even now never says a word against him. those pranks in petersburg
and ecstasy such as he had never before known. every trait and every
and drowsy kutúzov, who reluctantly played the part of chairman and
and dropped it again behind her. prince andrew recognized her without
and drew it downwards as if wishing to ascertain whether it was firmly
and, drawing up an armchair for prince vasíli, pointed to it and began
and drawing up again next moment when her face broke into a smile of
“and do you know, my dear fellow, it seems to me that bonaparte has
“and do you feel quite calm?” rostóv asked.
and don’t forget to give him the rostóvs’ invitation. they ask him
and dólokhov swore at him in coarse soldier’s russian and shouldering
and dólokhov’s angry cry.
and, doing so, groaned involuntarily.
and distinctly. in the valley he saw before him something like a river,
and dissatisfied about something and that at headquarters they were
and dismounted slowly among the guns. he delivered the order and did
and disheveled, beat and turned the heavy feather bed for the third
“and did you give me tobacco yesterday? that’s just it, friend! ah,
“and didn’t hippolyte tell you?” asked prince vasíli, turning to
and devotion, or of weariness and hope of resting before long. prince
and desperation as though he were at that moment facing some great
and denísov went to the bed to get the purse from under the pillow.
and denísov rode up to a group that had stopped near rostóv, composed
and decided in his own mind that all was as it should be, and that in
and dark. the officers were hurriedly drinking tea and breakfasting, the
   and dare not herculean russians trouble...
and count rostóv, glancing angrily at the author who went on reading
and count ilyá rostóv became more and more moved, more glass was
and countess alike—turned to look at her as if wondering why she had
and could not answer. “can something bad have happened to me?”
and continual expectation of some good, always in front of him but never
and connections he belonged to the groups of old and honored guests, and
and conflict with which he had trodden the enns bridge, but with the
and complacently seated himself on the sofa.
and compelled to act under conditions of war unlike anything that had
and commendation are essential, just as grease is necessary to wheels
and colonel looked sternly and significantly at one another like two
and character but alike in the social circle to which they belonged.
and ceased talking when véra entered. sónya and natásha looked at
and carefully placed her in an easy chair.
and calling the nurse began giving the medicine. the child screamed
and by a servant who passed out on tiptoe without heeding them. they
and broke it up. in this action for the first time trophies were taken:
and borís says it is quite possible. you know i have told him all about
and borís. he is his godson,” she added, her tone suggesting that
and borís, having apparently relieved himself of an onerous duty and
and blue riding breeches, who were swarming near the bridge, and then at
and bilíbin unwrinkled his temple, feeling that the dilemma was
and besides this, nine men in every thousand for the militia. everywhere
and being well disposed toward borís, who had managed to please him the
and began to speak.
and began firing them at túshin’s battery.
and began dancing round the room with it.
and back, galloped strenuously forward, and with a dashing salute reined
and awkwardly over the parquet floor of the reception room, not knowing
“and at your age what secrets can there be between natásha and
and at the people in it. round a long table covered with black sat some
and at last became silent.
and a timid smile.
and at every word he added: “but don’t hurt my little horse!” and
and, as you know my principles, i refer it to you.”
and as they went along he was told allegories of the toils of his
“and ask whether sharpshooters have been posted,” he added. “what
and asking them all to be seated began:
and ask him, i!... does that satisfy you?”
and, as it might seem, of the obligations to her he had taken on
and as he went on became more and more animated. he told them of his
and as he waved his arms to impersonate the policeman, his portly form
and artillerymen’s bonfires. to the left, not far from the farthest
“and are the hours the same? and the walks in the avenues? and the
and are drawn along.”
and anxiety they threw their burden of sorrow on one another and
and anna mikháylovna (who found it necessary to accompany him) was
and angry faces struggled for the mop: how differently do those clouds
and anatole met in the conservatory.
and amusingly. “and why not marry her if she really has so much money?
and amuse themselves as girls of thirteen and fourteen do who are
and amused as he was when he put on the little icon. “did he believe?
and a muffled shout almost behind them in the wood. the french had
“and am i to bring the gypsy girls along with him?” asked nicholas,
and am at your service to help you nurse my uncle. i imagine what you
and also that murat’s mistake would very soon be discovered, proved
and all you have been doing on your estates.”
     * and all that follows therefrom.
and all his mercy to one who is blind, or who shuts his eyes that he may
and all his comrades of the guards by his appearance—that of a
and all along the french line on the hill fires flared up and the
and a letter; it is a premium for the man who writes a history of
and again she began to sob, more bitterly than before. natásha lifted
and again proceeded to gallop along the line, penetrating farther and
and again jumping up, dashed so impetuously forward that it seemed as if
and again it turned uselessly in the same place.
and after staying but a short time with the tsar went to see the grand
and a flask, and nesvítski was treating some officers to pies and real
and affronts matter? i love and forgive everybody now.”
and a few here and there with powdered hair and in russian kaftáns.
and advantages of service under members of the imperial family.
and, addressing him, again used the epithet “young man” that was
and acquaintances, invitations, and social occupations were so numerous
and a convoy of croats. beside kutúzov sat an austrian general, in
and accept the offer,” but before he had time to say it natásha began
and a castle with a park surrounded by the waters of the confluence of
and a bullet whizzing high up in the mist with a plaintive sound passed
and abruptly.
and about nikólenka, twice asked when the last letter had been received
and a ball flew whistling over the heads of the hussar squadron. the
ancestor of the bolkónskis. prince andrew, looking again at that
an austrian officer in a white uniform with green plumes in his hat
an attack. but when they had marched for about an hour in the dense fog,
anatole with his swaggering air strode up to the window. he wanted to
“anatole used to come to borrow money from her and used to kiss her
anatole turned to the englishman and taking him by one of the buttons
anatole stopped him.
anatole’s expression, though his eyes were fixed on her, referred not
anatole returned smiling to the ladies.
anatole lived, pierre entered the lighted porch, ascended the stairs,
anatole kissed the old man, and looked at him with curiosity and perfect
anatole is no genius, but he is an honest, goodhearted lad; an excellent
anatole is accompanying me on his way to the army, so i hope you will
anatole, having taken off his overcoat, sat with arms akimbo before a
anatole embracing the frenchwoman and whispering something to her. with
anatole came up to her. she still could not see him. she only felt a
anatole and pierre.
anatole. “ah, i know, i know,” she said with a sly glance, “your
an assiduous and modest mien, and stooping over the outspread map
an anonymous volunteer, and david widger
an allowance of ten thousand rubles. he had a dim perception of the
an air of importance that showed that she felt she quite knew what she
a musketry fire at the french cavalry that was pursuing our troops. it
amusing, now girlishly enchanting.
amusing,” he continued, with a sudden, good-natured laugh, “was that
am staying in for your sake,” and so on. and though prince vasíli,
a movement. with a pleasant smile berg related how the grand duke
a most serious, deferential, and innocent expression.
a mop, his legs far apart, sprang to the wheel; while number two with
among the young men introduced by rostóv one of the first was
among the women!”
among them the staff officer and zherkóv, who had been twice sent to
among them. on my word i’d give five years of my life for it!”
among the gentlemen of the suite, rostóv noticed bolkónski, sitting
among the field guns on the brow of the hill the general in command of
among the children, in the special sense they attached to it.) “why
a moment, “yes, bring me seven hundred rubles, yes! but mind, don’t
a moment. the sick man was given something to drink, there was a
a moment, and, evidently understanding what rostóv hinted at, seized
am i to go?” thought nicholas, and went again into the dancing room
a minute later sónya came in with a frightened, guilty, and scared
“a million all but one!” replied a waggish soldier in a torn coat,
amid the square masses of troops standing motionless as if turned to
amid the smoke of their campfires, the greater part of whom were
amid the smoke, deafened by the incessant reports which always made him
amid people of whom he was weary had gone, instantly every thought of
amiably into his face, evidently wishing to soften the rudeness of his
a member of the hofkriegsrath from vienna had come to kutúzov the day
amélie” (mademoiselle bourienne) “thinks i could be jealous of her,
a meeting with napoleon. to the joy and pride of the whole army, a
ambassadors to compliment the usurper.”
amazed the french themselves. rostóv was horrified to hear later that
a man who on a hot day takes a final run before plunging into the water.
a man oppressed by business, weary and suffering, who yet would not, for
am.”
always won. however much he drank, he never lost his clearheadedness.
always surrounded by the same decks, masts, and rigging of his ship, so
always shall, and i want nothing more.”
always poking fun at me.... ah, well! let him!” and he began reading
always in one direction, humming with whispers and talk and the sound of
(always followed by a ball flying past and striking the earth, a man, a
always dragging it in one direction. he tried to get away from them, but
always clear and simple, so she is not stupid. she never was abashed and
always called natásha a cossack) and she stroked the child’s arm as
always better to “bow too low than not bow low enough.” so the
always be the chief desire of everyone else.
always be my daughters’ first confidante, and that if nicholas, with
always, always anxious! especially just at this age, so dangerous both
always afraid, came into her room with a peculiarly restless and malign
always accompanied any reference of hers to the imperial family, “has
although the hall porter saw someone’s carriage standing at the
although prince vasíli listened reluctantly and not very politely
although iogel did not acknowledge this to be the real mazurka, everyone
although in female society anatole usually assumed the role of a man
altered in shape by its pressure on the table, now at her still more
altar with her. how and when this would be he did not know, he did not
altar on which lay a testament and a skull. round it stood seven large
also. yes, my opinion, and only my opinion,” added prince bolkónski,
also to the soldiers. looking at their boots he several times shook his
also the abbé morio. do you know that profound thinker? he has been
also in french:
already visible. suddenly something like a birch broom seemed to sweep
already seen the young master, and, before he had reached the drawing
already seated in the drawing room. the count took the gentlemen into
already prepared...”
already passed. through the terrible and deafening roar of those voices,
already opening a door.
already lost him. he bent over him and, as his sister had taught him,
already known in moscow and that the ladies about his father—who were
already in any case dishonored by being unable to fulfill the great and
already, but then he cannot know what i think of him and may imagine
already been choosing a career for three months, and had not decided
already.”
aloud to him and being friends with princess mary. mademoiselle
a loud, monotonous voice began to read out the dispositions for the
aloud.
a look of complete absent-mindedness, kept rubbing the bridge of his
a look at you, your excellency.”
along the broad country road, edged on both sides by trees, came a high,
a long-awaited moment. he was firmly convinced that this was the day of
alone without any allies, it might perhaps have been a long time before
alone with her, so rostóv, now that he had attained what he had longed
alone with hélène in the little drawing room where they were sitting.
alone together, prince vasíli announced his hopes and wishes to the old
alone... that tremendous fortune... and what is his life worth? it’s a
alone, in which there was something more significant than in the general
alone, but because of everyone, it must inevitably come about. they are
alone at last gains a real victory, destroying the spell of the
alone applying her handkerchief to her eyes. at last she rang.
alone and in full view of the emperor.
“alone all the same, without my friends.... and he expects me not to
almost time,” she added, giving pierre to understand that they were
almost frightened, eyes as she passed him.
almost dragging him to the window. “that money is denísov’s; you
almost at the middle of the table. facing them sat pierre, beside prince
ally. we shall therefore confidently await the moment when the imperial
all your valuables.”
“all wight! all wight!” shouted denísov. “it’s no good making
all were then more confident of victory than the winning of two battles
all were silent. túshin appeared at the threshold and made his way
all were seated again, turned with his kindly smile to rostóv.
“all well?” asked rostóv, drawing away his arm.
allusion to the name of the sovereign. three hundred persons took their
all this shame and sorrow, but wanted now to play with him as a cat does
all this, rose and approached the princess. he seemed unable to bear the
all this is not right, it’s not right! you may take offense or not but
“all this had to be and could not be otherwise,” thought pierre,
all this end?” thought rostóv, looking at the changing shadows before
all the unmarried ladies and even the married ones except the very
all the soldiers’ remarks related to the two young ones. every face
all these dreams melted and merged into the chaos and darkness of
“all the same! they say this one is the commander of all the emperor
“all the same, one is afraid! oh, you clever people,” said a third
“all the same, it was bilíbin who found a suitable form for the
“all the same, i love and value nothing but triumph over them all, i
all the old feminine arts. but as soon as the prince had gone her face
all the moscow ladies have conspired to give him all their sons as
all the guns, without waiting for orders, were being fired in the
all the figures on it: the sun, the moon, a hammer, a plumb line, a
all the comforts of cleanliness and all the refinements of life, prince
all the advantages were on our side. our enormous forces, undoubtedly
all that would be required of him.
all that the peasants had has been eaten up. i myself will remain in
all that has happened.”
all sorts of tempting wares. the pávlograds held feast after feast,
all sides, moved across the bridge.
all rostóv’s cards were beaten and he had eight hundred rubles scored
“all right. they are good fellows. and how have you wriggled onto the
“all right,” said pierre, still smiling in the same way. a feeling
“all right!” said dólokhov, having finished the addition. “all
“all right. fifty imperials ... that i will drink a whole bottle of
“all right, all right. we’ll talk it over,” replied prince andrew.
“all right, all right, we’ll see!”
“all right, all right!” said the old count. “he always flares up!
“all right, all right,” replied the commander, and turned to major
“all right, all right,” interrupted the prince, and laughing his
“all right, all right!” he said to prince andrew, and turned to a
all regular germans.”
all quite forgetting the danger and all regard for self-preservation, he
all pale and exchanged looks in silence.
“allow me to look at your purse,” he said in a low, almost
“allow me to give you a piece of advice. when you reach the capital,
“allow me to ask,” he said, “are you a mason?”
“allow me, sir,” said prince andrew in russian in a cold,
allow him personally to express the deep respect that, emulating his
allowed to speak, turns to auersperg with feigned astonishment (he is a
allowed to pass by special permission. the eyes of all the soldiers
allowed, i have hastened to take all steps to that end. may i have
all on one plan, for hospitals, schools, and almshouses, which were soon
all my trouble will have been thrown away.... i shall not be able to
all moscow, that everyone will say that you, drunk and not knowing what
all moscow talks of nothing but war. one of my two brothers is already
all moscow repeated prince dolgorúkov’s saying: “if you go on
all make out: was it a glade in the wood lit up by the moon, or some
all like that; one can’t unmarry. don’t be afraid; i won’t tell
all, like children of my own, as you know.”
all its details to the austrian general weyrother: a lucky accident had
“all is over,” he thought, and a cold sweat broke out on his
all-important.”
“all i can say, general,” said he with a pleasant elegance
all his wishes were being fulfilled that morning: there was to be a
all his property, not to us his direct heirs, but to pierre.”
all his decisions and intentions. he went to kurágin’s.
all her invitations without exception, written in french, and delivered
all her clothes in petersburg and that heaven knew what she would have
all her attention. he seemed to her kind, brave, determined, manly, and
“all have secrets of their own,” answered natásha, getting warmer.
all four, like a flock of scared birds, got up and left the room.
all for his relations was the fact that there was still a possibility of
“alley! alley!” said the cossack, touching the prisoner’s arm to
all expecting it, they are so sure that it will happen that i cannot, i
all done casually in a moment of anger, of illness, and was afterwards
all commanders of divisions the right to shoot marauders, but i much
all be killed,” a sergeant was saying angrily and reproachfully.
all began to run and bustle, and rostóv saw coming up the road behind
all. at last the sleigh bore to the right, drew up at an entrance, and
all as they should be? that’s right! the great thing is the serving,
all around were loving eyes glistening with tears of joy, and all around
all are struck by the justness of his views, but no one undertakes to
all, and your future depends on him. remember that, my dear, and be nice
all, and without promising to help me?” thought pierre, rising with
all along the sides of the road fallen horses were to be seen, some
all.”
alive—live: tomorrow you’ll die as i might have died an hour ago.
alive could understand or explain.
alive and suffering from a burning, lacerating pain in his head.
“a little wound, but he has been made an officer; he is well now, he
“a little volcano!”
a little to their right and behind the accountant, crashed to earth with
a little later when he went up to the large circle, anna pávlovna said
a little earth crumbled from the bank under the horse’s hind hoofs.
“aline,” he said to his wife, “go and see what they are about.”
alike, felt that the commander did not himself know what to do, and this
alighted from his horse and whose big body was jammed against the
alight, and let her pass into the house before him. old tíkhon, wearing
a life i can’t decide or think properly about anything. one’s head
alien face of that man, his bayonet hanging down, holding his breath,
alexéevich. loud knocks were heard at the door. pierre took the bandage
alexander was clearly heard. he gave the words of greeting, and the
alexander unpleasantly, he rode up and saluted.
alexander’s guards,” said the first one, indicating a russian
alexander prince vasíli had risen to high position and honors. and now,
a letter of recommendation he had brought from pierre had become
a letter has been written to the emperor in which the count asks for
“a letter from nikólenka! i’m sure of it!” exclaimed natásha,
a letter at once, and she’ll come here and all will be explained, or
alert than he had done the day before. only his eyes gleamed feverishly
alcohol, and sounds of voices and shouting in the distance.
a laugh still more so, he quitted the table.
alarm, supposing these words to mean that the young count was displeased
alarm lest something should have happened to the child while he was
a large udder was attached to the cart behind. a woman with an unweaned
a languor of motion and speech, resulting from weakness, gave her a
a lack of bread, to move farther into the interior of prussia, for only
a kind no longer in general use. prince andrew remembered the story of
a keg, filled one after another the canteen lids held out to him. the
a joke he had heard in vienna and which he had been trying all that
air, and disobeying orders. the moral hesitation which decided the fate
aim was to show general weyrother—who had read his dispositions with
aim—to establish peace in europe on firm foundations—has now decided
aim?” said he quietly and quickly.
aim remaining for him was to effect a junction with the forces that were
aid of his servant, and not looking at pierre. with a pair of felt boots
aides-de-camp to inquire after the count’s health, came himself
aide-de-camp, “dat one liffs after de sird stroke.”
aide-de-camp and was duly conducted to pay his respects to the aunt and
aide-de-camp, and sat down in the lady’s chair, placing his huge hands
aide-de-camp.
aide-de-camp.
“ah, you’ve come here too, young man!” he said, smiling and
“ah, your excellency,” put in zherkóv, his eyes fixed on the
“ah, you’re up already,” said denísov, entering the room.
“ah, you are sending off a letter, princess? i have already dispatched
“ah, yes! that’s a whole long story! how are you going to speak to
“ah yes, my dear,” said the count, addressing the visitor and
“ah, yes! do tell us all about it, vicomte,” said anna pávlovna,
“ah yes, and what else did he say that’s unpleasant?” thought
“ah, wostóv,” he cried noticing the cadet’s bright face,
“ah! what joy for the princess!” exclaimed she: “at last! i must
“ah, what have you done to me?” it still seemed to say, and prince
“ah what a calamity! you say the affair was decisive? but mortier is
“ah, váska!” joyfully replied nesvítski. “what’s up with
“ah, timókhin!” said he, recognizing the red-nosed captain who had
“ah, those damned germans! they don’t know their own country!”
“ah, there will be, and there are, many more such girls somewhere whom
“ah, that’s the way to talk french,” said the picket soldiers.
“ah, that’s always the way!” said nesvítski with a wave of the
“ah! that’s a good thing. so, my dear boy, you wish to serve the
“ah, that is just what i tell him!” said she. “i don’t
“ah! telyánin! how d’ye do? they plucked me last night,” came
“ah, she is indeed a darling! i’ll send her to you.”
“ah!” said kutúzov. “i hope this will be a lesson to you. do your
“ah!...” said kutúzov glancing at bolkónski as if by this
“ah, princess mary!” he said suddenly in an unnatural voice,
“ah, prince! in what sad circumstances we meet again! and how is our
a host welcomes an honored guest. he reported that his regiment had
a horrified expression on his handsome face, anatole looked at princess
a hollow between two hills near the village of pratzen, the russian
a hoarse voice to the men to look to their pistols. he rode up to
a hoar frost now turning to dew, but in the valleys it still lay like a
“ah, my love,” answered anna mikháylovna, “god grant you never
“ah, my friend!” she said, touching his arm as she had done her
“ah, my friend!” said he, taking pierre by the elbow; and there was
“ah, my dear vicomte,” put in anna pávlovna, “l’urope” (for
“ah, my dear,” said the countess, “my life is not all roses
“ah, my dear prince! i could not have a more welcome visitor,”
“ah, my dear, my dear!” he began, rising and taking her by both
“ah, my dear, i hardly knew you,” said anna mikháylovna with a
“ah! my dear, i am afraid you and your monk are wasting your
“ah, my dear! he is so rich, and we are so poor!”
“ah, my dear friend, he is very unfortunate,” she said. “if what
“ah, my dear friend! forget the wrongs that may have been done you.
“ah, my dear fellow, what a battle we have gained! god grant that
“ah! my dear!... ah! mary!...” they suddenly exclaimed, and then
“ah, my boy, my head’s in a whirl!” said the old man with a smile,
“ah, money, count, money! how much sorrow it causes in the world,”
“ah! mon ami, i only pray, and hope that god will hear me.
“ah, may the devil take you and evewybody,” were the last words
“ah, madam, it is a great sacrament,” replied the priest, passing
“ah, it can’t be avoided!” thought nicholas, for the first and
“ah, is it you, cousin?”
“ah, i know what it is.”
“ah! here’s the warrior! wants to vanquish buonaparte?” said the
“ah, here she is!” he exclaimed laughing. “my pet, whose name day
“ah! he is alive,” said napoleon. “lift this young man up and
“ah, from vienna? very good. later, later!”
a heavenly feeling. borís was telling his new friend pierre who the
“ah, don’t talk to me! last winter she wheedled herself in here and
“ah, dear friend,” replied princess mary, “i have asked you never
“ah, count rostóv!” exclaimed pierre joyfully. “then you are his
“ah, but you won’t talk politics to me like annette!”
“ah! breathing again, breathing!” he muttered to himself.
“ah, bondarénko, dear friend!” said he to the hussar who rushed up
a handsome adjutant. this was prince bolkónski. beside him was his
“ah, and here’s nicholas!” cried natásha, running up to him.
ague.
agreed or disagreed and was satisfied or not with the arrangements. next
agreeable and interesting work. his face expressed more satisfaction
a good thing for proprietors who perish morally, bring remorse upon
a good friend, an adjutant general and an excellent fellow, prince
a good example, yet here you are without your boots! the alarm will be
a gold snuffbox on which was a portrait. in the middle of one of the
ago have joined the archduke. and believe me on my honour that to me
aglow with dazzling light—as if he had only awaited this to begin the
a glimpse of her, she seemed still more lovely. she was a charming girl
agitated.
a girl, such tact, such masterly perfection of manner! it comes from
“a geography lesson!” he muttered as if to himself, but loud enough
a general engagement,” repeated dolgorúkov, evidently prizing this
age...”
again when he passed to another group whose center was the abbé.
again turning to the count. “zat is how ve old hussars look at it, and
“against your will he will save and have mercy on you and bring you
against the wall, and the second of the three sisters rushed out
against the pillow.
against the muslin of the curtain.
against them and winding down over the uneven ground. one could already
against the french?”
again struck up, the count and countess kissed, and the guests, leaving
against one of the columns in a respectful attitude implying that he,
against his right, flew round again in a circle. natásha guessed what
again shook with a deep ringing laugh, the laugh of one who always eats
again see the sun, this water, that gorge!...”
again rostóv looked intently into borís’ eyes and sighed. berg
again recalled all the details of the victory and his own calm courage
again on the sofa. they were silent for a while.
again on all the bright faces of the squadron the serious expression
again joined her. they began talking in whispers, but their talk broke
again. i must go there, prince, and scare them a bit. it won’t take a
again going on tiptoe to the reception room where they had left prince
again getting in front of the first line as he had done when the horse
again expressing deep sorrow.
again drawn out in a thin line the musketeers were descending the hill,
again began to laugh. she evidently felt unable to look at him
again, as soon as all turned toward him, excused himself and said no
again are all running back somewhere, and i shall run with them, and it,
again, and the little princess curiously noting the impression
again and remained for a while with the ismáylov regiment.
again, and let his head sink still lower.
again.
again.
after washing and dressing, prince andrew came into the diplomat’s
after two in the morning, thoughts come and i can’t sleep but toss
after troops and begged for seats on the gun carriages. the jaunty
after the soup the prince became more genial.
after these words, the mason, as if tired by his long discourse, again
“after the next affair... epaulettes.”
after the murder of the duc there was one martyr more in heaven and one
after their active service, were stationed near olmütz and the camp
after the fatigues and impressions of the journey, his reception, and
after the battle but send a courier to petersburg with news of a
after the austerlitz campaign prince andrew had firmly resolved not
after the attack, bogdánich would come up to him as he lay wounded and
after that anna pávlovna led up to the courage and firmness of the king
after tea, the company went into the sitting room and princess mary was
after supper pierre with his partner followed the others into the
after receiving this news late in the evening, when he was alone in his
after receiving her visitors, the countess was so tired that she gave
after passing some austrian troops he noticed that the next part of the
after natásha down the passage into the sitting room with flushed face
after losing her own father. she is very good-natured, and my father
after losing half their men were retreating in disorderly confused
after looking at him napoleon smiled.
after inspecting the carriage himself and seeing the trunks put in, he
after his reception by the austrians, to speak if not in russian
after his journey and the campaign during which he had been deprived of
after his interview with his wife pierre left for petersburg. at the
after his illness he looked rather thinner that day than on the field
after his dismissal from headquarters zherkóv had not remained in the
after five o’clock it was only at the augesd dam that a hot cannonade
after dinner, he went to see his daughter-in-law. the little princess
after dinner. he called natásha and asked her what was the matter.
after denísov’s departure, rostóv spent another fortnight in moscow,
after a while the moving mass became agitated, someone rode past on
after a while he re-entered it as if to snuff the candles, and, seeing
“after austerlitz!” said prince andrew gloomily. “no, thank you
after another greeting the tsar with the strains of the march, and then
after anna mikháylovna had driven off with her son to visit count cyril
after a few minutes’ bustle beside the high bedstead, those who had
a friend older than himself and whom he respected. his whole time
a fresh wave of the flying mob caught him and bore him back with it.
a french soldier tugged at the other. he could distinctly see the
“a french pancake,” answered zherkóv.
a frenchman), “l’urope ne sera jamais notre alliée sincère.” *
a freak of fate made the impossible possible. the success of the trick
afraid of a general battle. his hour has come! mark my words!”
a fortnight ago he would have had a paymaster’s clerk at yúkhnovna
a fortnight after the letter prince vasíli’s servants came one
a former war. “the emperor will teach your suvara as he has taught the
a foreigner, in spite of all differences of faith, understood the full
a foraging expedition. rostóv in his cadet uniform, with a jerk to his
a footman came in to summon borís—the princess was going. pierre, in
a flag of truce, demanding an audience with the russian emperor, was
a first introduction and betrays a consciousness of the impropriety of
a fine place! why are you not eating anything, gentlemen?” nesvítski
“a fine mess we’ve made of it!” he remarked.
“a fine lad! my word! a fine lad!... his father lies on his deathbed
a fight led murat to try to deceive kutúzov in a similar way. meeting
afflicted by the death of the father he had hardly known), and her
affirmatively.) “when you hear a knock at the door, you will uncover
affectionately.
affectionate letters to your parents, and if you think you may be
affectionate eyes, now came up and took his arm. before he looked round
affectionate as it was—expressed a sense of his own superiority.
affected languor and indolence. he now looked like a man who has time
affectation. princess mary ran out of the room to fetch mary
affair was over and, though not big, had been a successful engagement.
affairs of honor and had twice regained his commission.
affairs and of pierre himself in those early days. from the death of
affair public. you are offended at being put on duty a bit, but why not
affair of the thabor bridge, at vienna.... they have crossed without
affair. i am her father.”
affair, and about some ladies they both knew.
a few steps, turned, cut a caper, brought her little feet sharply
a few minutes later the chief forces of the french army moved rapidly
a few hours ahead of the french who were approaching hollabrünn from
a few fir trees.
a fellow diplomat, “that the chancellor told him flatly that his
a feeling of contemptuous ill will. he snorted whenever he mentioned
a father could for their education, and they have both turned out fools.
advise you to appeal to rumyántsev through prince golítsyn. that would
advice is to let the matter drop. well then, on friday after the review
adve’sawies have wefused a weconciliation, please pwoceed. take your
advantageous match but a splendid, noble fellow... he is my friend...”
advancing to attack the french cavalry that was coming to meet them.
advancing straight toward the inner door.
advancing from russia, without losing his army as mack had done at ulm.
advancing by forced marches toward znaim, which lay sixty-six miles
advancing.”
adroitness and italian play-acting! do you know the tale about him and
   a dreaded foe be thou, kindhearted as a man,
a door of one of the inner rooms opened and one of the princesses, the
admitted that he had been to blame, did not lift his eyes from the
admit—he had almost been jealous on his wife’s account, was the butt
admired his regiment, rejoiced in it, and that his whole mind was
administered. come.”
adjutant, zherkóv, an orderly officer, the staff officer on duty,
adjutant whom he so hated.
adjutants met him with news of the successful result of the action.
adjutants.”
adjutant, or really let the matter drop, was the question that worried
adjutant on kutúzov’s staff, but he does everything alone. the next
adjutant by his elaborate courtesy appeared to wish to ward off any
adjutant.
a dinner where there was no place for him. in the next hut there was a
adieu, prince! may god support you...”
“adieu, mary,” said he gently to his sister, taking her by the hand
“adieu, ma bonne,” answered prince vasíli turning away from her.
adieu, dear and kind friend; may our divine saviour and his most holy
a despot. who is right and who is wrong? no one! but if you are
a desperate cry and such mad, drunken determination that, taken by
a desire to do something for them, a desire for their approval.—so i
a deed to sign for the princess’ benefit.
address rostóv by his title, as if in recognition of his confession.
addressing the mother.
addressing the englishman.
addressing the black-mustached denísov with servile deference.
addressing the austrian general, “i have the honor to congratulate
addressing lorrain in french which he pronounced badly.
addressing him as ‘usurper and enemy of mankind.’”
addressing her with the careless tone of habitual tenderness natural to
addressing first one, then another. he said he would not have been
address. he is a wise and clever fellow.”
addressed the horseman with the white plumes, evidently suggesting
addressed an edifying exhortation to them. he imagined to himself
adding, “your excellency.”
added: “what a lot of men have been crippled today—frightful!”
added, not noticing his visitor’s sarcastic smile.
added, noticing that prince andrew winced as at an electric shock.
added in a tone admitting of no rejoinder and raising her eyebrows.
added he, munching a pie in his moist-lipped handsome mouth, “would be
added, addressing prince vasíli, and without waiting for an answer she
added.
added.
   a day or two, then bliss unspoilt,
a dark-green dress coat, knee breeches of the color of cuisse de nymphe
a cup of tea?”
actuated by a real desire for peace.
actual phrase used by the vienna cabinet,” said the danish chargé
activity, túshin did not experience the slightest unpleasant sense of
activities of 160,000 russians and french—all their passions, desires,
action they had been wounded. “day before yesterday, on the danube,”
action—he drew the glove from his shapely white hand, made a sign
action did prince bagratión, still hearing the cannonade in the center,
action, as if flying through the air without touching the ground.
action, and more than that, you can’t make me believe that you do not
action, and in the company of well-known, elderly, and respected racing
a cry of: “the general to the third company,” the missing officer
across the table to clink glasses with the count, with the children, and
across the bodies and under a terrible fire from the french, he attended
across, snatched it from his hand and began reading it. pierre looked
across his path. rostóv put his horse to full gallop to get out of the
a crash.
a crafty man convinced of the futility of being cunning with so
acquiring a trotter of his own, very stylish riding breeches of the
acquired though she did not understand its significance. this expression
acquainted with prince andrew bolkónski, through whom he hoped to
acquainted,” and he pressed borís’ hand. “do you know, i have not
acquaintances not only cordially, but even with a shade of deference
acquaintance,” said pierre. and again, glancing at the stranger’s
acquaintance of many persons who might prove useful to him, and by
acquaintance.’ in a word, those gentlemen, gascons indeed, so
acquaintance—he wished him simply a brother and a virtuous instructor.
a coronet) entered the room, calm and majestic, except that there was
a convoy wagon became restive at the end of the bridge, and the whole
a convoy. directly opposite to him came a strange one-horse vehicle,
a consciousness is communicated is very difficult to define, but it
a company smile but was evidently tormented by jealousy; now she turned
a company commander, a fine round-faced man, with a stupid and happy
a commanding officer’s quarters, the regiment began to move: the
a commander in chief. as it was considered that the austerlitz success
a comforting belief in future life, retribution, recompense, and
a closely written letter of two sheets from bilíbin. he folded it up
a cloak, waiting for the conversation to finish. they listened to
a clear blue sky, and the sun’s vast orb quivered like a huge hollow,
aches, and one spends all one’s money. he asked me for tonight, but i
a chance to escape, or to trick us, now that we certainly have him in
a certain house—that was another matter and quite the thing for a
a ceremonial march past him, and rostóv on bedouin, recently purchased
a celebrated miniaturist, and he leaned over the table to take the
accustomed to win in their battles,” he concluded his evidently
accounts is a poor creature.”
account of court and personal considerations tens of thousands of lives,
accountant, a stout, full-faced man, looked around him with a naïve
“according to the scouts the last of them crossed on rafts during the
accorded to the lowest hierarchy in her drawing room. but in spite of
accomplished.
accompanying him to the hall.
accompanied by adjutants, galloped off in different directions, and
accept this challenge or not. anatole did not release him, and though
accept it and fixed the stake himself. nicholas submitted to him, and at
accent. he was breathless with agitation, his face was red, and when
accent—having noticed that zherkóv could still hear him.
accent.
a cavalryman. prince andrew felt that an invisible power was leading him
a case.
absolutely necessary.
absent-minded. when he rose to go, he took up instead of his own, the
absence. little nicholas had been unwell for four days. the coachman who
abroad, the other is with the guards, who are starting on their march
a brilliant match—blushed like a girl.
a bright smile, “so she won’t come down. it is natural in her
above the heights was the dark clear sky, and to the right the vast orb
above his head: “captain túshin! captain!”
above and below him in social standing. something always drew him toward
above all this the lofty sky, formed the chief subjects of his delirious
“about your sister,” ejaculated denísov testily.
about two thirds of a mile was stopped on the highroad. rostóv saw the
about to smile, and once on coming out of the chapel prince andrew and
about to ask their way of an elderly footman who had sprung up as they
about till dawn, because i think and can’t help thinking, just as
about the princess’ health and then led pierre along a stone passage.
about the old prince and criticized him.
about the corners of his mouth read to the austrian general the
about the austrians and their uniforms, about their lines, about
about the army and the battle, and then the talk went off into merry
about ten o’clock rostóv went to the english hotel straight from the
about such a base thing as money, and because their youth was over....
about sergéy kuzmích that interested prince vasíli just then, and
“about my wife... i am ashamed as it is to leave her on your
about mademoiselle bourienne was dreadful. it was untrue to be sure, but
about him or anyone else, and i don’t want anything of the kind.”
about him. he reddened and turned away.
about him and even speak.
about him and about his love for him, letting it be understood that he
about her native land. when he saw the pretty little bourienne, anatole
about her confinement, and how she dreaded it, and had complained of her
about a mile and a half off on the opposite heights. down below, on
about 80,000 went in payments on all the estates to the land bank, about
abominable, quite abominable!” said prince andrew, and he went off to
a bold, free, and easy tone, while in his soul he regarded himself as a
a blue-eyed soldier involuntarily attracted notice. it was dólokhov
able to inflict punishments justly and unjustly. it is those people i
“a bit touched—i always said so.”
a b c of war or of politics, and that bonaparte was an insignificant
abbé morio? he is a most interesting man.”
“a bayonet wound. i remained at the front. remember, your
a battlefield to whom thousands of new and brilliant ideas occur which
a battery to their left. the smoke above it had not yet dispersed. two
     * a bastard.
a banister post stood a tallow candle which guttered in the draft. on
abandoning all hope of a junction with buxhöwden. if kutúzov decided
abandoned in the center?” he inquired, searching with his eyes for
“aah!” rostóv almost screamed lifting both hands to his head. the
     *(4) i just ask you that.
     *(3) hollow.
30,000 went for the upkeep of the estate near moscow, the town house,
     * (2) that their fire gets into his eyes and he forgets that
     *(2) that suits us down to the ground.
     * (2) “it is all very well for that good-for-nothing fellow
    * (2) “hurrah for the austrians! hurrah for the russians!
1. discretion, the keeping of the secrets of the order. 2. obedience to


































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































