


















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































    * (2) “hurrah for the austrians! hurrah for the russians!
     * (2) “it is all very well for that good-for-nothing fellow
     *(2) that suits us down to the ground.
     * (2) that their fire gets into his eyes and he forgets that
     *(3) hollow.
     *(4) i just ask you that.
abandoning all hope of a junction with buxhöwden. if kutúzov decided
     * a bastard.
a battery to their left. the smoke above it had not yet dispersed. two
abbé morio? he is a most interesting man.”
a b c of war or of politics, and that bonaparte was an insignificant
a blue-eyed soldier involuntarily attracted notice. it was dólokhov
abominable, quite abominable!” said prince andrew, and he went off to
about her confinement, and how she dreaded it, and had complained of her
“about my wife... i am ashamed as it is to leave her on your
about such a base thing as money, and because their youth was over....
about the army and the battle, and then the talk went off into merry
about the corners of his mouth read to the austrian general the
about the princess’ health and then led pierre along a stone passage.
about to ask their way of an elderly footman who had sprung up as they
abroad, the other is with the guards, who are starting on their march
absent-minded. when he rose to go, he took up instead of his own, the
accent.
accent—having noticed that zherkóv could still hear him.
accept this challenge or not. anatole did not release him, and though
accompanying him to the hall.
accomplished.
accorded to the lowest hierarchy in her drawing room. but in spite of
“according to the scouts the last of them crossed on rafts during the
accountant, a stout, full-faced man, looked around him with a naïve
accounts is a poor creature.”
accustomed to win in their battles,” he concluded his evidently
aches, and one spends all one’s money. he asked me for tonight, but i
a cloak, waiting for the conversation to finish. they listened to
a company commander, a fine round-faced man, with a stupid and happy
a company smile but was evidently tormented by jealousy; now she turned
a convoy. directly opposite to him came a strange one-horse vehicle,
a convoy wagon became restive at the end of the bridge, and the whole
acquaintance.’ in a word, those gentlemen, gascons indeed, so
acquainted,” and he pressed borís’ hand. “do you know, i have not
a crash.
across the table to clink glasses with the count, with the children, and
a cry of: “the general to the third company,” the missing officer
action they had been wounded. “day before yesterday, on the danube,”
a cup of tea?”
a dark-green dress coat, knee breeches of the color of cuisse de nymphe
   a day or two, then bliss unspoilt,
added.
added.
added, addressing prince vasíli, and without waiting for an answer she
added he, munching a pie in his moist-lipped handsome mouth, “would be
added in a tone admitting of no rejoinder and raising her eyebrows.
added, noticing that prince andrew winced as at an electric shock.
added, not noticing his visitor’s sarcastic smile.
adding, “your excellency.”
addressing lorrain in french which he pronounced badly.
addressing the austrian general, “i have the honor to congratulate
addressing the englishman.
addressing the mother.
address rostóv by his title, as if in recognition of his confession.
adieu, dear and kind friend; may our divine saviour and his most holy
“adieu, ma bonne,” answered prince vasíli turning away from her.
“adieu, mary,” said he gently to his sister, taking her by the hand
adieu, prince! may god support you...”
adjutant.
adjutant by his elaborate courtesy appeared to wish to ward off any
adjutants.”
adjutant, zherkóv, an orderly officer, the staff officer on duty,
administered. come.”
admired his regiment, rejoiced in it, and that his whole mind was
admit—he had almost been jealous on his wife’s account, was the butt
admitted that he had been to blame, did not lift his eyes from the
a door of one of the inner rooms opened and one of the princesses, the
advancing.”
advancing by forced marches toward znaim, which lay sixty-six miles
advancing from russia, without losing his army as mack had done at ulm.
advancing straight toward the inner door.
advise you to appeal to rumyántsev through prince golítsyn. that would
a father could for their education, and they have both turned out fools.
a fellow diplomat, “that the chancellor told him flatly that his
a few hours ahead of the french who were approaching hollabrünn from
affair, and about some ladies they both knew.
affair of the thabor bridge, at vienna.... they have crossed without
affair public. you are offended at being put on duty a bit, but why not
affairs of honor and had twice regained his commission.
affected languor and indolence. he now looked like a man who has time
affectionate as it was—expressed a sense of his own superiority.
affectionate eyes, now came up and took his arm. before he looked round
affectionately.
a fight led murat to try to deceive kutúzov in a similar way. meeting
“a fine lad! my word! a fine lad!... his father lies on his deathbed
“a fine mess we’ve made of it!” he remarked.
a fine place! why are you not eating anything, gentlemen?” nesvítski
a footman came in to summon borís—the princess was going. pierre, in
a foraging expedition. rostóv in his cadet uniform, with a jerk to his
a foreigner, in spite of all differences of faith, understood the full
a former war. “the emperor will teach your suvara as he has taught the
a freak of fate made the impossible possible. the success of the trick
“a french pancake,” answered zherkóv.
after a few minutes’ bustle beside the high bedstead, those who had
after anna mikháylovna had driven off with her son to visit count cyril
after his dismissal from headquarters zherkóv had not remained in the
after his journey and the campaign during which he had been deprived of
after his reception by the austrians, to speak if not in russian
after inspecting the carriage himself and seeing the trunks put in, he
after losing her own father. she is very good-natured, and my father
after natásha down the passage into the sitting room with flushed face
after receiving her visitors, the countess was so tired that she gave
after the attack, bogdánich would come up to him as he lay wounded and
after the fatigues and impressions of the journey, his reception, and
after the murder of the duc there was one martyr more in heaven and one
“after the next affair... epaulettes.”
after washing and dressing, prince andrew came into the diplomat’s
again are all running back somewhere, and i shall run with them, and it,
again began to laugh. she evidently felt unable to look at him
again drawn out in a thin line the musketeers were descending the hill,
again expressing deep sorrow.
again going on tiptoe to the reception room where they had left prince
again. i must go there, prince, and scare them a bit. it won’t take a
again on all the bright faces of the squadron the serious expression
again on the sofa. they were silent for a while.
again recalled all the details of the victory and his own calm courage
again see the sun, this water, that gorge!...”
again shook with a deep ringing laugh, the laugh of one who always eats
against one of the columns in a respectful attitude implying that he,
again struck up, the count and countess kissed, and the guests, leaving
against them and winding down over the uneven ground. one could already
against the wall, and the second of the three sisters rushed out
“against your will he will save and have mercy on you and bring you
again turning to the count. “zat is how ve old hussars look at it, and
again when he passed to another group whose center was the abbé.
age...”
agitated.
ago have joined the archduke. and believe me on my honour that to me
a good example, yet here you are without your boots! the alarm will be
agreeable and interesting work. his face expressed more satisfaction
ague.
a handsome adjutant. this was prince bolkónski. beside him was his
“ah, bondarénko, dear friend!” said he to the hussar who rushed up
“ah, count rostóv!” exclaimed pierre joyfully. “then you are his
“ah, dear friend,” replied princess mary, “i have asked you never
“ah, don’t talk to me! last winter she wheedled herself in here and
a heavenly feeling. borís was telling his new friend pierre who the
“ah, from vienna? very good. later, later!”
“ah, here she is!” he exclaimed laughing. “my pet, whose name day
“ah! here’s the warrior! wants to vanquish buonaparte?” said the
“ah, i know what it is.”
“ah, is it you, cousin?”
“ah, madam, it is a great sacrament,” replied the priest, passing
“ah, may the devil take you and evewybody,” were the last words
“ah! mon ami, i only pray, and hope that god will hear me.
“ah, money, count, money! how much sorrow it causes in the world,”
“ah! my dear!... ah! mary!...” they suddenly exclaimed, and then
“ah, my dear friend! forget the wrongs that may have been done you.
“ah, my dear! he is so rich, and we are so poor!”
“ah! my dear, i am afraid you and your monk are wasting your
“ah, my dear, i hardly knew you,” said anna mikháylovna with a
“ah, my dear prince! i could not have a more welcome visitor,”
“ah, my dear,” said the countess, “my life is not all roses
“ah, my friend!” said he, taking pierre by the elbow; and there was
“ah, my friend!” she said, touching his arm as she had done her
“ah, my love,” answered anna mikháylovna, “god grant you never
a hoarse voice to the men to look to their pistols. he rode up to
a host welcomes an honored guest. he reported that his regiment had
“ah, prince! in what sad circumstances we meet again! and how is our
“ah!...” said kutúzov glancing at bolkónski as if by this
“ah!” said kutúzov. “i hope this will be a lesson to you. do your
“ah! telyánin! how d’ye do? they plucked me last night,” came
“ah, that is just what i tell him!” said she. “i don’t
“ah, that’s always the way!” said nesvítski with a wave of the
“ah, that’s the way to talk french,” said the picket soldiers.
“ah, timókhin!” said he, recognizing the red-nosed captain who had
“ah, váska!” joyfully replied nesvítski. “what’s up with
“ah what a calamity! you say the affair was decisive? but mortier is
“ah! what joy for the princess!” exclaimed she: “at last! i must
“ah, wostóv,” he cried noticing the cadet’s bright face,
“ah, yes! do tell us all about it, vicomte,” said anna pávlovna,
“ah yes, my dear,” said the count, addressing the visitor and
“ah, you are sending off a letter, princess? i have already dispatched
“ah, you’re up already,” said denísov, entering the room.
“ah, your excellency,” put in zherkóv, his eyes fixed on the
“ah, you’ve come here too, young man!” he said, smiling and
aide-de-camp.
aide-de-camp, and sat down in the lady’s chair, placing his huge hands
aide-de-camp, “dat one liffs after de sird stroke.”
aides-de-camp to inquire after the count’s health, came himself
aim remaining for him was to effect a junction with the forces that were
aim—to establish peace in europe on firm foundations—has now decided
a keg, filled one after another the canteen lids held out to him. the
a kind no longer in general use. prince andrew remembered the story of
a languor of motion and speech, resulting from weakness, gave her a
a large udder was attached to the cart behind. a woman with an unweaned
a laugh still more so, he quitted the table.
alcohol, and sounds of voices and shouting in the distance.
alert than he had done the day before. only his eyes gleamed feverishly
a letter has been written to the emperor in which the count asks for
a life i can’t decide or think properly about anything. one’s head
alight, and let her pass into the house before him. old tíkhon, wearing
alighted from his horse and whose big body was jammed against the
a little to their right and behind the accountant, crashed to earth with
“a little volcano!”
all along the sides of the road fallen horses were to be seen, some
all, and your future depends on him. remember that, my dear, and be nice
all as they should be? that’s right! the great thing is the serving,
all be killed,” a sergeant was saying angrily and reproachfully.
all done casually in a moment of anger, of illness, and was afterwards
all four, like a flock of scared birds, got up and left the room.
“all have secrets of their own,” answered natásha, getting warmer.
all her clothes in petersburg and that heaven knew what she would have
all her invitations without exception, written in french, and delivered
all his decisions and intentions. he went to kurágin’s.
all his property, not to us his direct heirs, but to pierre.”
“all i can say, general,” said he with a pleasant elegance
all, like children of my own, as you know.”
all like that; one can’t unmarry. don’t be afraid; i won’t tell
all moscow talks of nothing but war. one of my two brothers is already
all my trouble will have been thrown away.... i shall not be able to
allowed to pass by special permission. the eyes of all the soldiers
allowed to speak, turns to auersperg with feigned astonishment (he is a
“allow me, sir,” said prince andrew in russian in a cold,
“allow me to look at your purse,” he said in a low, almost
all regular germans.”
“all right, all right!” said the old count. “he always flares up!
“all right. fifty imperials ... that i will drink a whole bottle of
“all right. they are good fellows. and how have you wriggled onto the
all sides, moved across the bridge.
all the comforts of cleanliness and all the refinements of life, prince
all the moscow ladies have conspired to give him all their sons as
all the old feminine arts. but as soon as the prince had gone her face
“all the same, one is afraid! oh, you clever people,” said a third
all the soldiers’ remarks related to the two young ones. every face
all the unmarried ladies and even the married ones except the very
all this is not right, it’s not right! you may take offense or not but
all this, rose and approached the princess. he seemed unable to bear the
ally. we shall therefore confidently await the moment when the imperial
almost dragging him to the window. “that money is denísov’s; you
almost frightened, eyes as she passed him.
almost time,” she added, giving pierre to understand that they were
“alone all the same, without my friends.... and he expects me not to
alone applying her handkerchief to her eyes. at last she rang.
alone at last gains a real victory, destroying the spell of the
alone... that tremendous fortune... and what is his life worth? it’s a
along the broad country road, edged on both sides by trees, came a high,
already.”
already been choosing a career for three months, and had not decided
already known in moscow and that the ladies about his father—who were
already opening a door.
already prepared...”
already seated in the drawing room. the count took the gentlemen into
also in french:
also the abbé morio. do you know that profound thinker? he has been
also to the soldiers. looking at their boots he several times shook his
altered in shape by its pressure on the table, now at her still more
although prince vasíli listened reluctantly and not very politely
although the hall porter saw someone’s carriage standing at the
always accompanied any reference of hers to the imperial family, “has
always, always anxious! especially just at this age, so dangerous both
always be my daughters’ first confidante, and that if nicholas, with
always be the chief desire of everyone else.
always better to “bow too low than not bow low enough.” so the
always called natásha a cossack) and she stroked the child’s arm as
always won. however much he drank, he never lost his clearheadedness.
am.”
a man who on a hot day takes a final run before plunging into the water.
ambassadors to compliment the usurper.”
a member of the hofkriegsrath from vienna had come to kutúzov the day
amid the smoke of their campfires, the greater part of whom were
“a million all but one!” replied a waggish soldier in a torn coat,
a moment, and, evidently understanding what rostóv hinted at, seized
a moment. the sick man was given something to drink, there was a
a moment, “yes, bring me seven hundred rubles, yes! but mind, don’t
among the children, in the special sense they attached to it.) “why
among the field guns on the brow of the hill the general in command of
among them. on my word i’d give five years of my life for it!”
among the women!”
a mop, his legs far apart, sprang to the wheel; while number two with
a most serious, deferential, and innocent expression.
an air of importance that showed that she felt she quite knew what she
an anonymous volunteer, and david widger
anatole and pierre.
anatole lived, pierre entered the lighted porch, ascended the stairs,
anatole stopped him.
anatole turned to the englishman and taking him by one of the buttons
anatole with his swaggering air strode up to the window. he wanted to
ancestor of the bolkónskis. prince andrew, looking again at that
and a ball flew whistling over the heads of the hussar squadron. the
and a castle with a park surrounded by the waters of the confluence of
and a convoy of croats. beside kutúzov sat an austrian general, in
and a flask, and nesvítski was treating some officers to pies and real
and again she began to sob, more bitterly than before. natásha lifted
and a letter; it is a premium for the man who writes a history of
     * and all that follows therefrom.
and also that murat’s mistake would very soon be discovered, proved
and am at your service to help you nurse my uncle. i imagine what you
and anna mikháylovna (who found it necessary to accompany him) was
and are drawn along.”
“and are the hours the same? and the walks in the avenues? and the
and artillerymen’s bonfires. to the left, not far from the farthest
and as he waved his arms to impersonate the policeman, his portly form
and ask him, i!... does that satisfy you?”
and asking them all to be seated began:
and a timid smile.
“and at your age what secrets can there be between natásha and
and began dancing round the room with it.
and bilíbin unwrinkled his temple, feeling that the dilemma was
and blue riding breeches, who were swarming near the bridge, and then at
and borís, having apparently relieved himself of an onerous duty and
and borís. he is his godson,” she added, her tone suggesting that
and borís says it is quite possible. you know i have told him all about
and broke it up. in this action for the first time trophies were taken:
and by a servant who passed out on tiptoe without heeding them. they
and carefully placed her in an easy chair.
and ceased talking when véra entered. sónya and natásha looked at
and character but alike in the social circle to which they belonged.
and commendation are essential, just as grease is necessary to wheels
and compelled to act under conditions of war unlike anything that had
and complacently seated himself on the sofa.
and countess alike—turned to look at her as if wondering why she had
and decided in his own mind that all was as it should be, and that in
and denísov rode up to a group that had stopped near rostóv, composed
and denísov went to the bed to get the purse from under the pillow.
and desperation as though he were at that moment facing some great
and devotion, or of weariness and hope of resting before long. prince
“and did you give me tobacco yesterday? that’s just it, friend! ah,
and dólokhov swore at him in coarse soldier’s russian and shouldering
and don’t forget to give him the rostóvs’ invitation. they ask him
and drawing up again next moment when her face broke into a smile of
and drew it downwards as if wishing to ascertain whether it was firmly
and every strap in place, and shone with cleanliness. and not only
and examined him with attentive curiosity. the cossack was dead, but the
and fear.
and feeling at that moment. “is there anything at all behind that
and fell into the column to the measure of “left... left!” “close
and fell on his hands. the others outstripped him.
and fencing from the village.
and flask, and swung his heavy person easily into the saddle.
and from the different ranks some twenty men ran to the front. a
and fussily in the easy chair, “how is it annette never got married?
and get away to attend to her duties as hostess. but pierre now
and good-humored laughter from the soldiers that it infected the french
and gun carriages, the tramp of horses, the crack of whips, shouts, the
and had an opinion about everything), but above all at his capacity for
and had more than once impressed on his daughter that michael ivánovich
and had remained away till he was twenty. when he returned to moscow
and had taken him to vienna and given him the more serious commissions.
and hair, without looking at her eyes, with such contempt that the
and happiness... “i should wish for nothing else, nothing, if only i
and happiness the victory had afforded him had been now left in the
and hardly able to restrain his jerky movements, and from the way he
and hastened to reassure him.
and have seen fräulein mathilde.”
and having done this he rode back.
and having got rid of this young man who did not know how to behave, she
and he also passed on with the wagon. then came some merry soldiers who
and health. all who talked to her, and at each word saw her bright smile
and he amuses himself setting a policeman astride a bear! for shame,
and he caught the bear, took it in his arms, lifted it from the ground,
and he doesn’t care at all for julie.”
and he experienced tenfold the joy of living, as he had not done since
and he indicated with his delicate fingers what he meant by a pinch.
and he left the room, followed by the low but ringing laughter of the
“and here, friend, the people are quite beggarly. there they all
and he released bolkónski’s arm to indicate that he had now quite
and her face was tearful.
and her short, downy, smiling lip lifted when she began to speak just as
and he smiled approvingly, evidently pleased with the cadet. rostóv
and hills in the distance—and despite the fact that the inhabitants
and his eyebrows were lifted, then his eyebrows would descend and
and his forehead became smooth again, he bowed his head respectfully,
and his head tilting yet further back. “why is it so long?” thought
and his kind, intelligent face rather pale, rushed out of the shed
and his one division, and even then mortier slips through your fingers!
and his thoughts followed one another with extraordinary clearness and
and his visit to brünn. at the door he found a vehicle half full of
“and how do you get on with the officers?” inquired zherkóv.
    * “and hurrah for the whole world!”
and hurriedly removed.
“and i am still arguing with your husband. i can’t understand why he
and i beg you all to help me. brünn’s attractions must be shown him.
and i don’t now.”
“and if he asks about the losses?”
“and i had no idea!...” exclaimed princess mary. “ah, andrew, i
“and i?” he said; “do you think it is easier for me? i am as worn
and immediately túshin, with a short pipe in the corner of his mouth
and indeed everybody in the room looked with a smile of pleasure at the
and in proof of the conclusiveness of his opinion all the wrinkles
and involuntarily noticed the carefully washed seams of the scar near
“and i only...”
“and i should so like to thank uncle once for all his kindness to me
and is nothing unworthy of you, but it will comfort me. promise,
“and i tell you, don’t you dahe to do it!” shouted denísov,
“and i tell you, rostóv, that you must apologize to the colonel!”
“and it must seem to you,” said borís flushing slightly, but not
and ivy, with a gleam of white shoulders, glossy hair, and sparkling
and julie were saying to one another. the governess kept looking round
and kinds of dessert, in order to send a full description of the dinner
and kissed her.
and kissing her, and then he left the room with rapid steps.
and kutúzov smiled in a way that seemed to say, “you are quite at
and legs always fell into unnatural positions.
and let us talk sensibly while there is still time, be it a day or be it
and lifted it to his lips, threw back his head, and raised his free hand
and light, joyous steps. at the visitors’ request the young people
and like a practical petersburg lady who knows how to make the most of
and like him. write and tell me how he receives you. if he is all
“and lise, your wife?”
and little tables. during balls given at the house pierre, who did not
and looking carelessly about him.
and making a wide sweep with his arm, amid a thunder of applause and
and making pencil notes on them, and for the first two or three minutes
“and me? would you like to kiss me?” she whispered almost inaudibly,
and mirth that shone in all their faces. evidently in the back rooms,
and more attractive.
and most advantageous style, like a well-garnished joint of roast beef
and moved to the right; from behind it, dispersing the laggards, came
and murat, humiliated and anxious to expiate his fault, had at once
and my father was much affected by it. he says the count was the last
and next balls, about theatricals, and who would meet whom, and when and
and no connections. yet, though anatole spent tens of thousands of
and not become vehement, but almost always did become vehement, scolded,
and not in the habit of running, trotted awkwardly stumbling on his
and not only at the same hour but at the same minute. with those about
and not with his eyes.
and of good family and that’s all i want.”
and on all their faces he recognized the same eagerness that filled his
“and our share?” asked the princess smiling ironically, as if
and painfully felt. my father talks of nothing but marches and
and parted smiling, the german returning to his cowshed and rostóv
and pressed him against the railings, and all he could do was to smile.
and prince andrew after giving directions about his departure went to
and prove my devotion to his majesty the emperor and to russia!”
and put the matter before the emperor,” said princess anna
and refined expression on the faces of those present he was always
and replacing their purses and pocketbooks, entered the ballroom. first
“andré,” said his wife, addressing her husband in the same
and resignation to the will of god. “if you do not understand these
and respect as few hardhearted men would have aroused. although he was
and respectfully that the prince gave him a searching glance.
and returned a glove pierre had dropped; the doctors became respectfully
andrew.
“andrew, already!” said the little princess, turning pale and
andrew, “and at anna pávlovna’s they listen to me. and that stupid
andrew apparently knew this as well as tíkhon; he looked at his watch
andrew as one of themselves, an honor they did not extend to many. from
andrew. “besides, in the actions of a statesman one has to distinguish
andrew came up, stroked her hair, and asked if she felt rested after
andrew did not speak; he was both pleased and displeased that his father
andrew did not tell his father that he would no doubt live a long time
andrew? don’t forget that she has grown up and been educated in
andrew entered the passage. kutúzov himself, he was told, was in the
andrew felt a pleasant sense of repose among luxurious surroundings such
andrew had already heard from his wife in the presence of others some
andrew had gone and made the sign of the cross in his direction. from
andrew, “i am only surprised at your opinion of bonaparte. you
“andrew, i bless you with this icon and you must promise me you will
andrew?’ i did indeed.” she laughed. “he is so well received
“andrew, if you had faith you would have turned to god and asked him
andrew... is father’s way of treating religious subjects. i don’t
andrew. “look here, my dear fellow, get from kozlóvski all the
andrew made his way up to the battery from which the staff officer had
andrew...” she said timidly after a moment’s silence, “i have a
andrew shook himself as if waking up, and his face assumed the look it
andrew slowly, not taking his eyes off his wife.
andrew struck the high road along which the russian army was moving with
andrew, “that all the atrocities of the french army (i nearly said of
andrew was galloping along in a post chaise enjoying the feelings of a
andrew was natural and pleasant. others, the majority, disliked him and
andrúsha!...” said she, putting her hand in her reticule but not yet
andrúsha—the slender mischievous boy who had been her playfellow in
and say, “i am so delighted... mamma’s health... and countess
and scapegraces of petersburg.
and scarcely breathing, watched from her ambush with sparkling eyes.
and scented myself.”
and seeing that the elder visitor was not listening, he turned to the
and see the standard flapping against its staff.
and she began to cry again because he had such a noble soul.
and she found them on my table and said she’d show them to mamma, and
and she set off at a run along the passage.
and she’s even in my way. you know i always was a savage, and now am
“and she’s in love with borís already. just fancy!” said the
and she smiled her ecstatic smile.
and she won’t say anything to mamma. nicholas will tell her himself,
and shouted to the musicians to play faster. faster, faster, and faster;
“and showed me a letter in which the parade of the french in vienna
and show you what kind of rivet to use.”
and sighing disdainfully, he again changed his position.
and silent when the talk related to any topic that had no direct bearing
and sit. this morning i turned them all out and now look, it’s full
and social topics were ended and the time had come for intimate
“and so he is! quite blind!”
and sometimes flung the exercise book away.
and sometimes laughed. nearest of all to the commander in chief walked
and sometimes like a log floating down the river, an officers’ or
and so the anecdote ended. though it was unintelligible why he had told
“and so you think napoleon will manage to get an army across?” asked
and stood, hanging her head.
and suddenly, as if he had studied her sufficiently and had formed a
and suddenly determines to speak out.
and suddenly seemed to grow very merry.
and taking nesvítski’s arm he left zherkóv, who did not know what to
“and tell mr. dólokhov that i won’t forget him—he may be quite
“and that other one with him, the austrian, looked as if he were
and that the whole army had surrendered at ulm proved to be correct.
“and that would be splendid,” said pierre.
and the brilliance of the bright sunshine merged in a single joyous and
and the commander, turning to look at the adjutant, directed his jerky
and the constant gleam of her white teeth, thought that they were in a
and the conversation again turned on the war, on bonaparte, and the
“and the fete at the english ambassador’s? today is wednesday. i
and the general in white, accompanied by the suite, walked between the
and the glory that awaited him.
and the latter—unconscious that he was being reflected in the hussar
and the men’s at the other.
and the munching of the lieutenant.
and then at the other.
“and then of course my family has also to be considered,” prince
“and then, old fellow, he gives him one in the teeth with the butt
and the orders he gave them and, to his surprise, found that no orders
and the owner of the manly voice, evidently an infantry officer,
and the prince began explaining all the blunders which, according to
“and the prisoners he killed in africa? that was horrible!” said the
and the rattling of carriage wheels seemed to fill his ears, and now
“and there hasn’t been anyone in the room except the lieutenant and
and the staff captain rose and turned away from rostóv.
and the tramp of horses’ hoofs were heard. kutúzov and his suite were
and the visitors try to guess from these glances who, or what, they are
... and the wish, which constitutes the emperor’s sole and absolute
and they awoke in him astonishment at the genius of his hero, a feeling
“and they said kutúzov was blind of one eye?”
“and this is gratitude—this is recognition for those who have
and this “well!” sounded coldly ironic, as if he were saying: “now
and thoughtfully shaking his head. did he fear going to the war, or was
and threw them round the little girl who had run in.
and thrill of suspense usual at such moments. outside the house, beyond
and to pierre, glancing at him again.
and unexpectedly again began to cry.
and until you have ceased to love the woman of your choice and have seen
and wait for her, she went silently toward the door that everyone was
and, walking backwards before the company, jerked his shoulders and
and warmly pressing his hand looked affectionately over his spectacles
and was crossing himself with his right hand, turning his eyes upward
and was just putting his question to a soldier when his attention
and was therefore out of sorts, a state of mind which with her always
and, waving her thin arms from under the woolen shawl, cried:
“and we, my dear boy! it’s terrible! i was wrong to laugh at mack,
and went in at the open door. there was no one in the anteroom; empty
and went out of the corridor.
and went to the door.
“and what about his character?” asked the regimental commander.
“and what a well-preserved man he was!” remarked the aide-de-camp.
“and what devil made me go to that wat?” (an officer nicknamed
“and what do you think of this latest comedy, the coronation at
“and where is lise?” he asked, answering her question only by a
and which had always opened so quietly, burst noisily open and banged
and while kutúzov was turning managed to make a grimace and then assume
“and who are you?” cried the officer, turning on him with tipsy
“and who will inherit his wealth?” he added in a whisper.
“and why are children born to such men as you? if you were not a
“and why are they stopping? there’s no proper order!” said the
“and why didn’t you do it at seven in the morning? you ought to have
“and why is it?”
“and why the deuce are we going to fight bonaparte?” remarked
“and will she soon be confined?” and shaking his head reproachfully
and will then inherit everything under the will? and if the will and
and wiping their faces with their cambric handkerchiefs.
and wished he could tell what, if anything, this man was thinking
and wish you to have as good an opinion of me. don’t upset yourself,
“and without holding on to anything. is that right?”
and with the familiarity and easy grace peculiar to him, he raised the
and with this object offered a three days’ truce on condition that
and yet long to cross that line, and know that sooner or later it must
and you.”
“and you? are you going to have lunch too? they feed you quite
“and you didn’t see that everybody is packing up?”
and you, mon cousin, seem to consider me a perfect fool,” said the
and your capital!’ the one general whom we all loved, schmidt, you
“and you too!”
an entreaty, a threat, and above all conviction that she would herself
anger and walking up to the regiment wished to find a further excuse for
angrily and disrespectfully at kozlóvski.
angrily blowing his nose. hardly had prince andrew gone when the study
angrily, came in at the other door. natásha checked her first impulse
angrily pulling down his tight scarf.
angry with me for coming? you have changed so, andrúsha,” she added,
animated, and handsome, with his hand bandaged. in the study were four
an inn in the village which the officers frequented. rostóv rode up to
an inspection anywhere in the heart of russia.
anna mikháylovna.
anna mikháylovna came out last. she approached pierre with slow, quiet
anna mikháylovna instantly guessed her intention and stooped to be
anna mikháylovna looked at véra and paused. the countess pressed her
anna mikháylovna paused and waited for him to come up.
anna mikháylovna’s face expressed a consciousness that the decisive
anna mikháylovna’s was the most distinct.
anna mikháylovna took off her gloves and, occupying the position she
anna mikháylovna was already embracing her and weeping. the countess
anna pávlovna almost closed her eyes to indicate that neither she nor
anna pávlovna disapproved.
anna pávlovna had already managed to speak to lise about the match she
anna pávlovna in dismay detained him with the words: “do you know the
anna pávlovna’s alarm was justified, for pierre turned away from the
anna pávlovna’s drawing room was gradually filling. the highest
anna pávlovna smiled and promised to take pierre in hand. she knew his
anna pávlovna’s reception was in full swing. the spindles hummed
anna pávlovna’s soiree. the matter was mentioned to the emperor, an
“annette, for heaven’s sake don’t refuse me,” the countess
an old friend.
an old powdered manservant who was sitting in the antechamber rose
an orderly, or a townsman was carried through the waves of infantry;
an orderly’s charge, and he felt the blood rush to his heart with
“an order to who?” asked the colonel morosely.
another.
another—a childlike, kindly, even rather silly look, which seemed to
another. all became silent and turned to look at the pale tear-worn anna
another, a younger voice, interrupted him: “afraid or not, you can’t
another company, a lucky one for not all the companies had vodka,
another group.
another, hardly able to suppress their laughter.
another hussar also rushed toward the horse, but bondarénko had already
“another ismail comrade,” said he. “a brave officer! are you
another pie but felt shy, and therefore pretended to be examining the
another’s faces and speak to one another. besides the soldiers who
another time he interrupted, saying:
another voice, from a man of medium height with clear blue eyes,
another who wished to get away. with his head bent, and his big feet
an outsider is out of place here.... no, don’t distress yourself....
answered.”
answered her, as he had the countess, only in monosyllables. the other
answered lavrúshka. “i know by now, if he wins he comes back early to
answered pierre, trying to remember who this young man was.
answered the soldier. prince andrew took out his purse and gave the
answers to these questions, as was only too evident, did not interest
answer than the one prince andrew gave to this naïve question.
antechamber experienced the same feeling of respect and even fear when
anteroom with him.
antichrist—i really believe he is antichrist—i will have nothing
any clever conversation that was to be heard. seeing the self-confident
“any news from mack?”
anyone, and so you don’t deserve to have them.”
anyone, but you know it yourself.”
anyone else does the same, i will pay him a hundred imperials. do you
anyone else had a right to criticize what the empress desired or was
anyone if he is in disfavor. now come here.”
anyone. they wished to administer the sacrament of unction.”
anyone who wanted to see him could come the hundred miles from moscow to
anything, but was only conscious of her stern father’s withered face
anything. do you know i have sent for pierre? the count,” pointing to
anything else.... you have not been ordered to return and have not been
anything for his happiness! and my affairs are in such a bad way that my
anything. here is a letter to prince vasíli, and here is money. write
anything might happen, only not that.
anything to say, say it. these two things can be done together,” he
anything wrong in my behavior. but i’ll just tell mamma how you are
a particular glamour and glad keenness of impression to everything that
apartments assigned to prince vasíli.
a peg on which to hang the prince’s favorite topic, he looked
a plan of marriage for you. it is neither more nor less than with prince
a policeman and the bear back to back and put the bear into the moyka
apologize.”
apologize to an old and honorable officer? whatever bogdánich may
a portrait so characteristic of the original as to be amusing.
apparently she had forgotten her age and by force of habit employed
apparently the sight of them roused no pleasant feeling in véra.
appear as if he did not want any of that wine, but was mortified because
appeared a stupid smile of glee which he seemed unable to suppress.
appeared from behind his company and, though he was a middle-aged man
appeared in the doorway. the general with the bandaged head bent forward
appeared on his nose, the redness of which was evidently due to
appeared punctually to the appointed hour. everyone sitting in this
appeared, quite out of keeping with his features, that seemed to deride
appeared shy of her unquestionable and all too victorious beauty. she
appeared that they had worn when under fire. rostóv watched his enemy,
appeared, then a second and a third almost simultaneously, and at the
appearing on the skyline, which they knew to be the enemy’s troops.
apple, also half smiling as he looked at the handsome girl.
appointment to london was a promotion and that he was so to regard it.
appreciation of the vicomte’s epigram, pierre again broke into the
approach, but even in this room there now stood an empty bath, and water
approached.
approached the door of the minister’s room. he felt offended, and
approaching enemy farther off. at the same instant the sun came fully
apráksina...” and then, again rustling, pass into the anteroom, put
apráksins’ i heard a lady asking, ‘is that the famous prince
apron under the leather hood of the vehicle. prince andrew rode up
À propos of marriages: do you know that a while ago that universal
a quite unexpected, chance of saving the army. on receiving the news
archduchess also wished to see him. he did not know whom to answer, and
archduke’s as good as another, as you know) and even if it is only
are all stupid; but i know this: an illegitimate son cannot inherit...
a real one, but that they would talk of that later. princess mary was
are—at the heart of affairs and of the world—is the talk all of
are being deceived, my instinct tells me of negotiations with france and
are childwen of the dust... but one falls in love and one is a god, one
are distributed. why has fate given you two such splendid children?
are here?”
are, monsieur pierre!”
are not many left of us old friends! that’s why i so value your
a reply unnecessary. she smilingly waited. all the time the story was
are the french!’ murat, seeing that all is lost if the sergeant is
are we to find suvórovs now? je vous demande un peu,” *(4) said he,
are wrapped up in you, and that in spite of the distance separating us
“are you going to count cyril vladímirovich, my dear?” said the
“are you living with your mother?”
“are you not ashamed to deprive us of your charming wife?”
“are you ready?” he asked his wife, looking past her.
a ring, he made the sign of the cross over him with a gesture evidently
arm. he began to laugh.
arm wavered still more with the strain. one hand moved as if to clutch
army, and the member of the hofkriegsrath who had arrived the previous
army was very favorable.
army.... you are in a position to seize its baggage and artillery.
arranged and how nice it all was? there’s uncle shinshín’s brother
arrival of young prince andrew and his wife was daily expected, but
arrived from russia. with this object he intended to meet the regiment;
artillery sentry was pacing up and down; he stood at attention when the
artless smile, she had met him in secluded passages.
a rule to speak out... well, what answer am i to take? will you come to
as a dense cloud of smoke arose from it. the hussars had succeeded in
as a frenchman would speak after spending about a year in russia.
as a man recently returned from abroad, in a political conversation in
ascended the carpeted stairs.
a schoolboy who is told to repeat a lesson he has not learned. spots
as clear as day, and can go so far astray. that is the only thing
a sense of disgust the minutest details of this humiliating scene he
“as far as the service goes he is quite punctilious, your excellency;
as he always did when at the front, solemn and stern. then came the word
as he approached, a ringing shot issued from it deafening him and his
as he closed his eyes his ears seemed filled with the rattle of the
as he had been accustomed to from childhood. besides it was pleasant,
as he lay back in his armchair, looking in another direction.
as he liked, now in petersburg i hear he has been doing such terrible
as he rode by.
as he said this he rose, went to his sister, and, stooping, kissed
as he said this prince andrew was less than ever like that bolkónski
as he sat on the sloping ledge. as he began slipping down, his head and
as he was leaving the battery, firing was heard on the left also, and
as he would have done to a stranger.
a shot, and our troops could be seen hurrying to the crossing.
aside and turning sharply away; but rising immediately, he paced up and
aside with his arm, said in a breathless voice,
as if at times there radiated from them shafts of warm light)—were
as if flinging something to the ground, the drummer—a lean, handsome
as if guessing what it was about.
as if running a sword through an invisible foe, and glaring savagely
as if she had asked him to do it.
as if to ascertain whether his father’s habits had changed since he
as if to explain such a question.
as if to reassure prince andrew.
a sign of approaching anger. “i was forgetting... do you wish it
a sin, a great sin, it is hatred of that vile woman!” almost shrieked
as in a spoiled child, a continual consciousness of her charming defect,
“as it flies past me, daddy, the ball i mean,” said a young soldier
as it was too far to the left flank for him to have time to go there
“as i was saying to you, andrew, be kind and generous as you always
as i write?
ask; but to prove my devotion to you and how i respect your father’s
asked permission to be present at the battle out of curiosity. the
asked the italian how he stood russian climate. the italian’s
asked the prince’s permission to ride round the position to see the
asked the son.
asked. “they say old maids have a mania for matchmaking, and though i
ask forgiveness.
asking forgiveness?”
“ask the count to come to me.”
asleep. prince andrew felt sorry for his sister.
a small reception, and just see how badly i am dressed.” and she
a smell of perfume, and put it to nesvítski’s nose.
a smile of joy and satisfaction lit up her eager face.
a smile that broadened his round face more and more, prepared the
as often happens in early youth, especially to one who leads a lonely
a soldier was driving, and a woman enveloped in shawls sat behind the
a son of nicholas bolkónski, i shall be ashamed!”
as serene as if all this were happening at home awaiting peaceful
as she became animated the prince looked at her more and more sternly,
as she named the empress, anna pávlovna’s face suddenly assumed an
as she rose to go to her own room.
assiduity of its commander the regiment, in comparison with others that
assigned to cavalry-captain denísov, the squadron commander, known
as soon as all is over,” and prince vasíli sighed to intimate what he
as soon as he learned that the russian army was in such a hopeless
assuming quite the pose of a society woman (heaven knows when and where
as the bearers, among whom was anna mikháylovna, passed the young man
as the right flank would probably not be able to withstand the enemy’s
as they said in moscow society. he seemed to be condescending to
as though running away from some danger, and, making long, quick strides
a stout major was pacing up and down the line, and regardless of the
a strange caprice of his employer’s was admitted to table though the
as was his custom when at home—taking leave of a good-looking,
as we are masters of ulm, we cannot be deprived of the advantage of
as with his feet.
as ze sanctity of its alliances...” he spoke this last word with
at?”
at all. he said to me, ‘i am sorry i can do so little for you, dear
at all like the conduct of a great man!”
a tall, stout, and proud-looking woman, with a round-faced smiling
at anna pávlovna’s, that it would be difficult to get rid of anna
at any of them but smiling on all, as if graciously allowing each the
at a soldier in the ranks of the third company in a greatcoat of bluish
at bald hills, prince nicholas andréevich bolkónski’s estate, the
at bald hills with his wife. this pleasure will be but a brief one,
“at boss zides, captain,” he heard the voice of the colonel, who,
at each alternate step; and in time to this, with stern but varied
at ease by him, “but i hope i have not offended you. i always make it
at eight o’clock in the morning
a tête-à-tête talk with the friend of her childhood, princess anna
at her reflection in the glass. “she flatters me,” thought the
at his estate. as regularity is a prime condition facilitating activity,
a threatening gesture. “if the purse isn’t found i’ll flog you,
a thud. denísov rode past him, leaning back and shouting something.
at intervals the bugle calls and the shouts of the enemy could be heard
at krems excited but not weary, with dispatches from dokhtúrov to
at last anna mikháylovna, still with the same expression, pale but
atmosphere of a large and active town which is always so attractive to a
   at nighttime in the moon’s fair glow
at once transferred to the guards as a cornet, had been educated from
at once, when she heard the young man’s discreet steps approaching
at one another, and all pressed toward the exit from the bridge.
“at one draught, or he loses!” shouted a fourth.
at one of the post stations he overtook a convoy of russian wounded.
at prince andrew and did not even nod to him.
at prince andrew, evidently considering something.
a treat to her guests. as a clever maître d’hôtel serves up as a
a trembling hand placed a charge in the cannon’s mouth. the short,
“a trifle,” said the colonel in his bass voice: “two hussars
a truce and sent his adjutant to kutúzov to report the offer he had
a truce was kutúzov’s sole chance of gaining time, giving
“at seven o’clock, i believe.”
“at seven o’clock? it’s very sad, very sad!”
at someone unseen. “mr. pitt, as a traitor to the nation and to the
“attack indeed!” said the colonel in a bored voice, puckering up his
attack very long. about túshin and the battalion that had been in
attempt at familiarity on the part of the russian messenger.
attendance on him, to the enemy camp. wintzingerode was not merely
“attendez,” said anna pávlovna, reflecting, “i’ll speak to
attention. he screwed up his eyes showing that he was listening.
“att-ention!” shouted the regimental commander in a soul-shaking
attention to her severe remark—and began to laugh. she laughed, and in
attention to his story.
attentively to bagratión’s colloquies with the commanding officers
attentive to him. count cyril vladímirovich is your godfather after
at that instant the sun began to hide behind the clouds, and other
at that moment anna pávlovna came up and, looking severely at pierre,
at that moment, on the road from the town on which signalers had been
at that time, a very high ruffle, and a brown dress coat. this stout
at the appointed hour the prince, powdered and shaven, entered the
at the cadet’s troubled face.
at the door prince andrew and the figure of the old man in a white
at the foot of the hill lay wasteland over which a few groups of our
at the french.
at the levee prince andrew stood among the austrian officers as he had
at the men’s end of the table the talk grew more and more animated.
at the razumóvski’s ball ... and countess apráksina ... i was
at the sight of the letter red patches showed themselves on the
at the soldiers as if threatening to punish them. cadet mirónov ducked
at the soldiers who were blocking his way. “hi there, boys! keep to
at the steaming boiler, waiting till the sample, which a quartermaster
at this a sudden change evidently took place in the princess’ ideas;
at this big, stout, quiet man, wondering how such a clumsy, modest
at this moment that terrible door, which pierre had watched so long
“at what o’clock did the battle begin?” asked the emperor.
“at what o’clock was general schmidt killed?”
at which prince andrew had been when he examined the battlefield.
a type of face different from that of the men, squeezed his way along;
audible the whole length of the table.
audience over his spectacles and continued.
audiences, but he does not like talking himself and can’t do it, as
audience, which produced an effect unfavorable to the narrator. several
audience with the emperor francis occupied his thoughts.
auersperg was defending, and the bridge was not blown up: so murat
aunt, anna pávlovna mentioned each one’s name and then left them.
aunt as she conducted him to her.
auntie anna mikháylovna told me, under the seal of strict secrecy, of
aunt,” or “you do not know my aunt?” and very gravely conducted
aunt without waiting to hear her speech about her majesty’s health.
“au revoir! thank you very much. his majesty will probably desire to
austrian adjutant, bilíbin, and last night’s conversation. having
austrian troops, under the direction of so skillful a leader as general
author: leo tolstoy
    * “a very good morning! a very good morning!”
a vigorous attack on the orator.
avoid doing certain things, and speak french. he was one of those,
awaiting a reply. he frowned.
aware of a stir all around. he looked up: dólokhov was standing on the
aware of his weaknesses.
away.
away.
away.
away at the dogs! but this sort of thing is the very devil, with them
away from him. the alliance with prussia, austria’s treachery,
away with a grimace as if to say that everything dólokhov had said to
awful!”
awful...” and he burst into tears.
a whisper that the prince was sleeping, and hastily closed the door.
a white uniform that looked strange among the russian black ones. the
a whole month and this is the first time i have seen him in society.
a wig, put his head out of the door of the antechamber, reported in
a wild beast.... in poland, if you please, he nearly killed a jew.”
awkwardness or intentionally (no one could have said which) after the
a woman and, like a chained convict, you lose all freedom! and all you
a word to you and you... what?” he added with renewed irritation, “i
a young officer with a bewildered and pained expression on his face
baby, an old woman, and a healthy german girl with bright red cheeks
back!”
back.”
back, and bosom—which in the fashion of those days were very much
back, cadet!” he cried angrily; and turning to denísov, who, showing
back her hair, kissed him full on the lips.
back to moscow. anatole kurágin’s father managed somehow to get his
badly—all this debauchery, dissipation, and the rest of it!”
baggage and transport, having to accept battle on the march against an
baggage train, the artillery, and columns of troops were defiling
baggage was already being dispatched to olmütz. near hetzelsdorf prince
bagratión.”
bagratión, a gaunt middle-aged man of medium height with a firm,
bagratión as he shouted, with an expression that seemed to say: “we
bagratión bent his head in sign of agreement with what prince andrew
bagratión called to him, and túshin, raising three fingers to his cap
bagratión. his idea was, first, to concentrate all the artillery in the
bagratión, knowing bolkónski to be a favorite and trusted adjutant,
bagratión ordered two battalions from the center to be sent to
bagratión replied that he was not authorized either to accept or refuse
bagratión rode round the ranks that had marched past him and
bagratión’s exhausted troops some rest, and letting the transport and
bagratión’s hard brown face with its half-closed, dull, sleepy eyes.
bagratión’s weak detachment on the znaim road he supposed it to be
“bah! how they scurry. he just sends a ball and they think they’ll
bald head.
bald hills, while he himself needed no one and nothing. he used to
ball, cleaving the air, flew over the heads of bagratión and his suite,
ball flew past. evidently they were firing at the hussars, but the balls
ball flew past, rose in the stirrups and sank back again. the soldiers
band struck up in the gallery, and the guests settled down in their
banging the table with a determined and drunken gesture and preparing to
bank by unseen hands. prince andrew and the officer rode up, looked at
banners, cannon, and two enemy generals. for the first time, after a
bare hand as red as his face.
“baron funke has been recommended to the dowager empress by her
baron funke to be appointed first secretary at vienna? the baron by all
“bâton de gueules, engrêlé de gueules d’azur—maison condé,”
battalion came onto the bridge. only denísov’s squadron of hussars
battalion commanders who smilingly pressed forward (it was plain that
battle,” replied márya dmítrievna’s deep voice, which easily
be afraid.”
“be a man, my friend. i will look after your interests,” said she in
beaming smile to his head.
be announced had passed straight through the glass porch between the
be,” answered the princess joyfully.
be, anyway he is an honorable and brave old colonel! you’re quick at
bearers and the shuffling of their feet grew more hurried, as if the
beaucoup d’estime, and again her face clouded over with sadness.
beautiful.”
beautiful bosom, on which she readjusted a diamond necklace. from time
beautiful head and looking over her classically molded shoulder as she
“beautiful,” said the doctor in answer to a remark about the
beautiful young princess who was sitting some way off, the center of
be best described as strength of will. pierre was always astonished at
became quite pleasant again.
because he rose superior to the revolution, suppressed its abuses,
because his line was not straight, he reached the third company.
“because i hate ghost stories,” said prince hippolyte in a tone
“because not everything happens as one expects or with the smoothness
be clearly seen glittering as though freshly varnished. down below,
become her social vocation and, sometimes even when she did not
become of that scoundrel?” he asked denísov.
be crossed and you will have to find out what is there, just as you will
bed.
be difficult to return to the old regime.”
bedroom. pierre did not eat anything though he would very much have
be easy, but here, in this wretched moravian hole, it is more difficult,
been attacked by french cavalry and that, though the attack had been
been composed in the turkish campaign and now being sung in austria, the
been destroyed or not. and if they have somehow been overlooked, you
been foreseen, the russian army of thirty-five thousand men commanded
been forwarded by courier to the commander in chief.
been intriguing!”
been more amusing than the drawing room talk of society scandals, the
been put off,” said the prince, who, like a wound-up clock, by force
been reprimanded on account of the blue greatcoat.
been telling us such a tale about mademoiselle george and buonaparte!”
been there at seven in the morning,” returned bilíbin with a smile.
been told to, and the emperor francis merely looked fixedly into his
been up to heaven only knows what! and they have had to suffer for it.
been waiting for.” and bursting into tears she hid her face in her
before anna pávlovna and the others had time to smile their
before he could reach znaim. hence bagratión with his four thousand
before he had reached the embankments that were being thrown up, he saw,
before him. the french had advanced nearest on our right. below the
before his shelter, had been tasted.
before. “how often we sin, how much we deceive, and all for what? i am
before. it was a german cart with a pair of horses led by a german, and
before krems was really of small importance in view of such events as
before returning to bilíbin’s prince andrew had gone to a bookshop
before the heights on which the russian batteries stood guarding the
before they reached the room from which the sounds of the clavichord
before with proposals and demands for him to join up with the army of
before yesterday during my daily walk through the village i witnessed a
began crossing himself with the hand that held the taper.
began riding downhill to where the roll of musketry was heard but where
began to arrive; and slowly turning her eyes from the visitor to her
began to wail like a baby without knowing why, except that sónya was
began, with a blush that looked very strange on her thin, dignified,
beg—i’ll take it!”
beg you to dress your men decently.”
behaving himself, and in general...”
behaving with borís.”
behind each chair—stood waiting for the prince to enter. the head
behind her back. the french doctor held no taper; he was leaning
behind him.
behind him stood the aide-de-camp, the doctors, and the menservants;
behind the chair, held it in position. by the chair stood the priests,
behind the guns were their limbers and still farther back picket ropes
behind the pineapples at her husband whose face and bald head seemed
being told she sat upright, glancing now at her beautiful round arm,
“believe me, prince, a mother’s heart will never forget what you
“believe me, princess, i am ready to do all i can,” answered prince
below the shoulder. pierre went with anna mikháylovna into the small
beneath his dignity to give me satisfaction, then...”
bent arm to márya dmítrievna. he drew himself up, a smile of debonair
be. of the four crystal glasses engraved with the count’s monogram
be overthrown by the angel whom it has pleased the almighty, in his
berg always spoke quietly, politely, and with great precision. his
berg as much as you please,” she finished quickly.
berg smiled joyously. the count, followed by his guests, went into the
be seen from the hill on the opposite bank but was not yet visible from
beside him and was listening naïvely to his words.
beside him. this hussar, with a grave face and without a smile or a
besides! but don’t let’s talk about me; tell me how you managed
“besides that, peter nikoláevich, by exchanging into the guards
“besides,” thought he, “all such ‘words of honor’ are
beside the bed. pierre obediently sat down, his eyes asking if he were
beside the farthest of the four unlimbered cannon. before the guns an
beside themselves over there and one can’t make anything out.”
beside whom sat only one elderly lady, who with her thin careworn face
best families in russia, but she was poor, and having long been out of
bestowed on véra by nicholas, was considered very stinging), “and
be the best way.”
betrayal of the bourbon cause. the sovereigns! why, they are sending
betraying by this desperate and provocative proposition his extreme
better during those awful moments—the father who so remembered
between forefinger and thumb, and an old servant, bending over from
between his acts as a private person, as a general, and as an emperor.
between three and four o’clock in the afternoon prince andrew, who
bewildered him with fine words, and he is so flattered by his rapidly
bezúkhova. but you will understand that i have no desire for the post.
bezúkhov’s house that night had gathered to fortify themselves.
big people i write a note: ‘princess so-and-so desires an interview
bilíbin and the rest of “ours” burst out laughing in hippolyte’s
bilíbin came out to meet him. his usually calm face showed excitement.
bilíbin introduced him to the others.
bilíbin. “it’s not treachery nor rascality nor stupidity: it is
bilíbin liked conversation as he liked work, only when it could be
bilíbin’s house thinking out a letter to his father about the battle
bilíbin smiled and the wrinkles on his face disappeared.
bilíbin was a man of thirty-five, a bachelor, and of the same circle as
bit and i’ll get round him.... listen! i’ll take your bet tomorrow,
biting her underlip. at sight of pierre her expression showed an
blackest ingratitude—in this house...”
bleeding head and no cap was being dragged along by two soldiers who
blockhead!”
blocking the way for everyone. the countess tried to make him talk,
blood from it was streaming over his greatcoat as from a bottle. he had
blood rush to his heart. “but where and how will my toulon present
blue mountains beyond the river, the nunnery, the mysterious gorges, and
blue-striped feather bed and hugging her friend. with an effort sónya
blushing:
blushing and dropping her eyes.
bodice, with black curls tossed backward, thin bare arms, little legs
body was strikingly out of proportion to her short legs. prince vasíli
bogdánich knows how things are done.”
bogdánich was a brick: he told you you were saying what was not true.
boldly, with saucy gaiety, confident that her prank would be taken in
bold, tall, close handwriting.
bolkónskaya, very pretty and rosy, though rather too plump for her age.
“bolkónski! bolkónski!... don’t you hear? eh? come quick...” he
bolkónski, opposite which hung another such frame with a badly painted
bolkónski shrugged his shoulders.
bolkónski that the emperor desired to give him an audience. the emperor
bolkónski, the little princess’ husband. he was a very handsome young
bolkónski, turning still paler, pushed him away with an angry look and
bolkónski, very modestly without once mentioning himself, described the
bolkónski was invited everywhere, and had to spend the whole morning
bonaparte!”
“bonaparte...” began dólokhov, but the frenchman interrupted him.
“bonaparte has said so,” remarked prince andrew with a sarcastic
bonaparte’s adjutant rode full gallop with this menacing letter to
bonaparte’s new triumph, tomorrow’s levee and parade, and the
bonaparte’s side.”
bonaparte, that they desire to see prince auersperg, and so on. the
bookcases with keys in the locks, the high desk for writing while
    book eight: 1811 - 12
    book eleven: 1812
    book fifteen: 1812 - 13
    book five: 1806 - 07
    book four: 1806
    book fourteen: 1812
book from the high desk.
    book nine: 1812
    book one: 1805
book one: 1805
    book seven: 1810 - 11
    book six: 1808 - 10
    book ten: 1812
    book thirteen: 1812
    book three: 1805
    book twelve: 1812
    book two: 1805
book two: 1805
boots and the clinking of spurs that came to a stop, and a respectful
boots or overcoats and crowding round the boilers and porridge cookers.
bore almost the same smile, expressing unseemly thoughts about the
borís also,” she went on, gaining a little strength; “he is nice...
borís blushed.
borís bowed again politely.
borís bowed politely. prince vasíli without acknowledging the bow
“borís, come here,” said she with a sly and significant look. “i
borís felt that pierre did not recognize him but did not consider
borís followed her, smiling.
borís. “he wanted to thank you himself.”
borís knew nothing about the boulogne expedition; he did not read the
borís looked attentively and kindly at her eager face, but did not
borís, or between you two? it’s all nonsense!”
borís paused in the middle of the room, looked round, brushed a little
borís quietly left the room and went in search of natásha. the plump
borís said no more, but looked inquiringly at his mother without taking
“borís,” she said to her son with a smile, “i shall go in to see
borís with a smile.
borís with severity. “i am glad.... are you here on leave?” he went
bóry, who had only just entered a regiment of the line and was being
both armies should remain in position without moving. murat declared
both began to cry and kissed again. mademoiselle bourienne also began to
both kurágin and dólokhov were at that time notorious among the rakes
both laughed.
both were silent.
both were silent. there were two germans and a russian officer in the
bottle. i’ll do it.... bring a bottle!”
bottles, cloaks, and overshoes were lying about; there was a smell of
boulogne expedition.
bourienne. i embrace you as i love you.
bourienne rapidly, in her pleasant mellow tones and with guttural r’s.
bourienne. though in the new reign he was free to return to the
bourienne were already awaiting him together with his architect, who by
bowed his head in sign of assent and approval. he rode off at a walk to
bows and trying to escape as quickly as possible from the glances fixed
boy ran after them angrily, as if vexed that their program had been
brag about it, but if he stays out till morning it means he’s lost and
braunau had halted half a mile from the town, waiting to be inspected
brave officer,” thought bagratión. prince andrew, without replying,
bridge because he had not brought any burning straw with him like the
bridge. but this time nesvítski could not see what was happening there,
bridge, cross it, and now with their whole army are on this side of the
bridge did not take his eyes off the women till they had passed. when
     * bridgehead.
bridge is taken! but what is best of all,” he went on, his excitement
bridge nesvítski found the colonel to whom he had to deliver the order,
bridge not knowing what to do. there was no one to hew down (as he
bridge. sometimes through the monotonous waves of men, like a fleck of
bridge was at times veiled by a diaphanous curtain of slanting rain, and
brightly upon the danube and the dark hills around it. it was calm, and
bring me such tattered and dirty notes as last time, but nice clean ones
briskly from corner to corner of the room, looking straight before him
broad cheekbones, sunken cheeks, and listless tired expressions, and
broken glass remained in that position without taking his eyes from the
brother a small, oval, antique, dark-faced icon of the saviour in a gold
brotherly love, wagged their heads in token of their mutual affection,
brought at once?”
brought into the room had vanished; and as if answering a question no
brows he glanced into rostóv’s eyes.
brunette with a tender look in her eyes which were veiled by long
bugler, showed one common expression of conflict, irritation, and
build prince andrew could endure physical fatigue far better than many
“buonaparte himself!... just listen to the fool, what he doesn’t
“buonaparte?” said bilíbin inquiringly, puckering up his forehead
buonapartes. but i warn you, if you don’t tell me that this means war,
“buonaparte was born with a silver spoon in his mouth. he has got
burden to him, and bóry’s life is only just beginning....”
burn, i could not know by the holy spirit!”
burnt his boats, and i believe that we are ready to burn ours.”
    * “busy already?”
busy, and busy making his father comfortable, while evidently he,
busy with his roast meat, hoped he had been forgotten: “didn’t
busy with similar peaceful affairs—near the shelter of the regimental
but also for his skill in dealing and conversing with those in the
but an hour.... tell me all you know about the will, and above all where
but anna mikháylovna did not obey him.
but anna mikháylovna went forward a step or two to keep her hold on the
“but as it is, i know every word she utters. she will come running to
but as she passed the sitting room she noticed two couples sitting,
“but as you are a philosopher, be a consistent one, look at the other
but at irregular intervals, and grapeshot cracked and rattled onto the
but at that instant a tall austrian general in a greatcoat, with the
but at the incredible boldness and smartness of this little girl who had
“but a very kind man, prince,” said anna mikháylovna with a
but borís again interrupted him.
but borís spoke distinctly, clearly, and dryly, looking straight into
“but do you know, my dear, that was a capital joke,” said the count;
but enough of gossip. i am at the end of my second sheet of paper, and
but extremely attractive.
but god will support you: you are young, and are now, i hope, in command
but he immediately recalled his promise to prince andrew not to go
“but he must be a freemason,” said he, referring to the abbé whom
but he went on naïvely looking around through his spectacles as if in
but his aim to consider, and he reached it. but tie yourself up with
but his character...” said timókhin.
but hopeless: “the sovereigns, madame... what have they done for louis
“but how are you to get that balance?” pierre was beginning.
“but if the bridge is crossed it means that the army too is lost? it
but if the count, getting more and more into the swing of it, charmed
“but if you won’t accept money from me like a comrade, you will
“but i just wish to say, to avoid misunderstandings, that you are
but in his usual impulsive and hearty way he took borís by the hand
but in the center where the men with a flag of truce had passed that
“but i remember putting it there.”
“but it isn’t?...”
but it lifted all the more sweetly, and was especially charming when she
“but joking apart,” said prince andrew, “do you really think the
butler, napkin on arm, was scanning the setting of the table, making
but like a priest’s benediction, approached the general. though
     * “but my dear fellow, with all my respect for the orthodox
“but, my dear monsieur pierre,” said she, “how do you explain the
“but, my dear princess,” answered anna mikháylovna blandly but
“but, my dear,” said prince vasíli suddenly, clutching the little
“but, my dear sir,” said nesvítski as he drew up, taking off his
“but, my poor catiche, it is as clear as daylight! he will then be the
but neither anna mikháylovna nor the footman nor the coachman, who
but not concealing the fact that she would not be distressed if they
“but now i am off at once.”
but now we are all going to ——’s.”
     but oh! till then i cannot live!...
“but one cannot delay, prince, at such a moment! consider that the
but only a sort of puppet show at which the men of the day were playing,
but pierre continued his speech without heeding her.
but pierre thought it necessary to ask: “how is...” and hesitated,
“but, prince,” said anna mikháylovna, “after such a solemn
“but really, hadn’t i better go away?” he asked, looking kindly at
but rostóv pulled away his arm and, with as much anger as though
“but seriously,” said prince andrew, “we can at any rate say
“but still this does not mean that the campaign is over,” said
“but that is my conviction, and judging by the last letter with which
“but the best of it was,” said one, telling of the misfortune of
but the convoyman took no notice of the word “general” and shouted
but the guns remained loaded, the loopholes in blockhouses and
but the princess did not listen to him.
but the question “how?” that interested him. what the diplomatic
but these words came like a piteous, despairing cry and an entreaty for
but the smile did not enhance véra’s beauty as smiles generally do;
“but the worst of it, gentlemen—i am giving kurágin away to
“but they say that war has been declared,” replied the visitor.
but those tears were pleasant to them both.
but to help england and austria against the greatest man in the world is
but unabashed.
“but what have they been up to?” asked the countess.
“but what is there to say about me?” said pierre, his face relaxing
“but where do you come from not to know what every coachman in the
“but where is sónya?”
“but why do you expect that he will leave us anything?”
but won’t you come to this other table?” repeated anna pávlovna.
“but you know the wise maxim your excellency, advising one to expect
“but you meant to stay another two days?”
“but you must decide on something! your father expects it.”
bwicks and it’s nasty work! an attack’s pleasant work! hacking
by a scarlet-liveried footman that morning, ran as follows:
by finding husbands for me (most of whom i don’t even know), the
by kutúzov was hurriedly retreating along the danube, stopping where
by leo tolstoy/tolstoi
by six horses at a smart trot. behind the calèche galloped the suite
by the ammunition wagon.
by the amusing scene she foresaw. she drew her wool down through the
by the clatter of knives and forks, the voices of visitors, and the
by the commander in chief. despite the un-russian appearance of the
by the french who had crossed the vienna bridge, and encumbered by his
by their redness to contrast more than usual with his gray hair. at the
by the living mass of moving infantry, váska denísov, red and shaggy,
by the softness and flexibility of her small limbs, and by a certain
by the way, bagratión came out on the vienna-znaim road at hollabrünn
by the whole of the count’s plump figure, in márya dmítrievna found
by this time they were all approaching túshin’s battery, and a ball
by which the prince was to enter. prince andrew was looking at a large
cahd.”
calamity! what a calamity!”
calèche stopped in front of the regiment. kutúzov and the austrian
called everyone without exception and without the slightest variation
called him a great man,” remarked the vicomte.
call him but changed her mind. “let him look for me,” thought she.
calling on the principal austrian dignitaries. between four and five
calls.’”
calm, and penetrating, a look i loved so well and seem to see before me
calmer.
“calm yourself, princess! it seems so to you because.... i assure you
came galloping up on a cossack horse that could scarcely carry his
came in.
came márya dmítrievna and the count, both with merry countenances. the
came naturally to her, but was now very ill-suited to her careworn face.
came out—wearing a velvet coat with a single star on his breast,
came over his face. he said nothing to her but looked at her forehead
came, the pretty, fair-haired frenchwoman, mademoiselle bourienne,
came to his former chief with an order from the commander of the rear
campaign is over?”
campaign. the frenchman, confusing the austrians with the russians, was
canal. and there was the bear swimming about with the policeman on his
“can i see the count?” pierre again asked.
cannon, was a small, newly constructed wattle shed from which came the
cannot leave the estate to pierre. pierre is illegitimate.”
“can one be well while suffering morally? can one be calm in times
can rush off alone in a carriage to moscow, to petersburg, to those
can’t be done. and besides, if she tells mamma” (sónya looked upon
can’t, do what you will! how can i go and apologize like a little boy
canvas and, scarcely able to refrain from laughing, stooped as if trying
can, with all the pleasures of life here. if we were in vienna it would
can you fancy the figure he cut?...”
cap and smoothing his hair wet with perspiration with his plump hand,
“capital!” said prince hippolyte in english, and began slapping his
capitals, he still continued to live in the country, remarking that
captain,” and he turned to a thin, dirty little artillery officer who
captain and his drawn-in stomach, and mimicked his expression and pose
captain, his nose growing redder as he gave a smile which showed where
“captain túshin’s, your excellency!” shouted the red-haired,
captain up and down as he came up panting, slackening his pace as he
cap, who had come sailing in from another room as soon as the guests
card game he was very fond of, was that of listener, especially when he
cardinal virtues in her gave her lessons in algebra and geometry
cards and supper were over, but the visitors had not yet dispersed.
cared about; anna pávlovna observed these greetings with mournful and
carefully stretching his neck so as not to touch the quilt, followed her
carelessly holding in his stallion that was neighing and pawing the
carriage and rode up to dólokhov.
carriage. “get in with me,” said he to bolkónski.
carriage?” he asked his mother with a smile.
carriage, her husband was adjusting his saber; prince hippolyte, under
carriage, moved forward and, not noticing the general, looked out
carried the sick man dispersed. anna mikháylovna touched pierre’s
carried the whole length of the table.
“carrot ices.”
carrying her burden so lightly. old men and dull dispirited young ones
carts, guns, artillery, and again baggage wagons and vehicles of all
cart, shouting and scolding a soldier with coarse abuse. in each of
cases only one goes wrong, but it is her fancy and mine. they have been
“catch hold of my arm or you’ll drop him!” he heard one of the
catching and their sabers clattering.
cathedral, and its bridge, on both sides of which streamed jostling
     *catherine.
catherine’s court, count bezúkhov.
catherine’s day, count bezúkhov, and about his illegitimate son
“catiche has had tea served in the small drawing room,” said prince
catiche,” * muttered the prince, seating himself wearily on the chair
caught up the object of contention and ran into the bedroom. the eldest
cause of the confusion, turned away with indifference, as if to say,
cautious movements of those who crowded round the invalid chair that
censure, but asked him not to be too hard on the poor old man. “what
center, and secondly, to withdraw the cavalry to the other side of the
“cependant, mon cher,” he remarked, examining his nails from a
“certainly; but about kutúzov, i don’t promise.”
“certainly he must be moved onto the bed; here it will be
“cette armée russe que l’or de l’angleterre a transportée des
chair and pacing up and down the room followed by tíkhon, who ran after
chair, wrapped in a powdering mantle, entrusting his head to tíkhon.
championship of the doctor’s wife in her queer trap might expose him
changed: her eyes became fixed, and then a shiver passed down her broad
change in the expression of his fixed eyes, watched the regimental
changing his tone or attitude, “it must seem to you that everyone is
changing the expression of her eyes. “i am a woman, and you think we
changing unconsciously from russian to french as he went on—to explain
channel. i think the expedition is quite feasible. if only villeneuve
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
    chapter i
chapter i
chapter i
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
    chapter ii
chapter ii
chapter ii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
    chapter iii
chapter iii
chapter iii
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
    chapter iv
chapter iv
chapter iv
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
    chapter ix
chapter ix
chapter ix
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
    chapter v
chapter v
chapter v
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
    chapter vi
chapter vi
chapter vi
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
    chapter vii
chapter vii
chapter vii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
    chapter viii
chapter viii
chapter viii
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
    chapter x
chapter x
chapter x
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
    chapter xi
chapter xi
chapter xi
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
    chapter xii
chapter xii
chapter xii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
    chapter xiii
chapter xiii
chapter xiii
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
    chapter xiv
chapter xiv
chapter xiv
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
    chapter xix
chapter xix
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
    chapter xv
chapter xv
chapter xv
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
    chapter xvi
chapter xvi
chapter xvi
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
    chapter xvii
chapter xvii
chapter xvii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
    chapter xviii
chapter xviii
chapter xviii
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
    chapter xx
chapter xx
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
    chapter xxi
chapter xxi
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
    chapter xxii
chapter xxii
    chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiii
chapter xxiii
    chapter xxiv
    chapter xxiv
    chapter xxiv
    chapter xxiv
chapter xxiv
    chapter xxix
    chapter xxix
    chapter xxv
    chapter xxv
    chapter xxv
    chapter xxv
chapter xxv
    chapter xxvi
    chapter xxvi
    chapter xxvi
    chapter xxvi
chapter xxvi
    chapter xxvii
    chapter xxvii
    chapter xxvii
chapter xxvii
    chapter xxviii
    chapter xxviii
    chapter xxviii
chapter xxviii
    chapter xxx
    chapter xxx
    chapter xxxi
    chapter xxxi
    chapter xxxii
    chapter xxxii
    chapter xxxiii
    chapter xxxiii
    chapter xxxiv
    chapter xxxiv
    chapter xxxix
    chapter xxxv
    chapter xxxvi
    chapter xxxvii
    chapter xxxviii
characteristically noble wrinkles of his handsome, ruddy face. he lay
character set encoding: utf-8
charming age when a girl is no longer a child, though the child is not
“charming!” said anna pávlovna with an inquiring glance at the
“charming!” whispered the little princess, sticking the needle into
chasseur regiment and in the lines of the kiev grenadiers—fine fellows
chasseurs must hold their position till reserves from the center
chasseurs.... they won’t let us pass, we are left behind and have lost
checked handkerchief) to illustrate the theory that all men are equals,
cheerful were the troops. the greatest disorder and depression had been
chest to back than across the shoulders. he had on a brand-new uniform
childhood.
childhood.
childhood and lived for years at a time. the guards had already left
childhood; that same julie karágina who had been at the rostóvs’
child in a toyshop, did not know which way to look, afraid of missing
childish bare shoulders which after her run heaved and shook her
childlike way through his spectacles.
children are the bane of my life. it is the cross i have to bear. that
children,” she said, in her loud, full-toned voice which drowned all
children. the german tutor was trying to remember all the dishes, wines,
choice has fallen. i don’t know what you will think of it, but
“christ be with you!” kutúzov repeated and went toward his
christian...”
circumstances, he nevertheless delivered the definite order that the
circumstances i may be placed. but if you want to know the truth... if
circumstantially and with evident satisfaction.
cities wondered at her, laughed privately at her rudenesses, and told
clattering. these men pressed close to the wall to let pierre and anna
clavichord.
clavichord and harp. julie by general request played first. after she
clean, and in cloth covers carefully tied with tapes.
clean shirt on the feather bed with its warmed and fragrant pillows, he
clear, insolent eyes in the general’s face.
clearly worded the day before, namely, that the commander in chief
clenching his small hand and striking the table with it, “and what
clerk. “the kiev grenadiers, podolian...”
clever with véra,” said the count. “well, what of that? she’s
climb out of the window.
cloak, he asked whether they wanted the count or the princesses, and,
close-cropped hair, spectacles, the light-colored breeches fashionable
closed his eyes, silently let mack enter his room before him, and closed
closer!” she whispered.
close to her, began to whisper something.
close to her, of his breath and the smell of him, and could think only
close to her; the red patches on her face came and went, and it was
close, was gazing with astonishment at the angry face of the princess
cloth, which contrasted with the others. “what have you been after?
clouded his mother’s face, and he smiled slightly.
cloudless, northern, summer night. pierre took an open cab intending
coat of arms on the table. he explained this to her with as much gravity
“colonel,” he said, addressing rostóv’s enemy with an air of
“colonel,” interrupted the officer of the suite, “you must be
colonel of hussars who, growing more and more flushed, ate and drank so
colonel of hussars with the same order. after him the stout nesvítski
colonel’s athletic back, his nape covered with light hair, and his red
colonel was called bogdánich) “shuts you up.”
columns, with a high silk-curtained mahogany bedstead on one side and
“come along!”
“come here,” said rostóv, catching hold of telyánin’s arm and
come... he told me himself... but still i should not cry,” and she
“come if you need anything. one can at least be of use on the
come in a moment. petrúshka!” he called to his valet: “come here,
come into the hall. prince hippolyte stood close to the pretty, pregnant
“come, i will go with you. try to weep, nothing gives such relief as
“come, my dear anna mikháylovna, let catiche do as she pleases. you
“come nearer, come nearer, friend! i used to be the only one to tell
“come now! you with all your forces fall on the unfortunate mortier
“come on then,” cried pierre. “come on!... and we’ll take bruin
“come over here, hélène, dear,” said anna pávlovna to the
“come, that’s right, count!” cried the staff captain, turning
come up. in that case the dragoons could successfully make a flank
come up to him.
“come, what’s the matter, old fellow?” said nesvítski trying to
comfortably.
coming for me to take me there.”
coming from the study. the prince walked in quickly and jauntily as was
coming out of kutúzov’s room into the waiting room with the papers in
commander among them! hm!...”
commander, awaiting the word of command. a second and a third cannon
commander, but now that the commander in chief addressed him he drew
commander, higher than and different from the others, prince andrew came
commander in chief and of his own luggage. very sinister reports of the
“commander in chief kutúzov?” said the newly arrived general
commander in chief’s regarding the regiment. behind kutúzov, at a
commander in chief would otherwise be dissatisfied. on hearing this the
commander of the regiment in the hollow and news that immense masses
“commander of the third company wanted by the general!... commander to
commander’s back and mimicked his every movement. each time the
commander started and bent forward, the hussar started and bent forward
commander’s will, owing to the tact bagratión showed, his presence
commanding both sides of the danube, so that should the enemy not
command. “sergeants major!... how soon will he be here?” he asked
comme cet individu dont vous avez fait un ami, mais pas pour vous, pas
comme il faut, that’s a different matter; but the kurágins’ set of
commentaries), and resting on his elbow, began reading it in the middle.
commissariat, and the regiment had marched some seven hundred miles.
commit murder he had restored it to the rightful king, i should have
committed a reverse act of impoliteness. first he had left a lady before
common sense and frank plainness of speech. márya dmítrievna was known
companies, crowds of whom set off to the neighboring villages, or
company and overtook the next one.
company commanders calculated and reckoned, and by morning the
company’s baggage wagon, piled high, leather covered, and hemmed in on
completed.
comply. anna pávlovna arranged a group round him, inviting everyone to
comrade nesvítski, a tall staff officer, extremely stout, with a
comrades’ impression. every face, from denísov’s to that of the
conceit prevents your apologizing, and you wish to make the whole
conceive a future life...”
concerned with a thought that always occupied her: “now you see if i
concerned with, or he wanted to give the russian special messenger that
concerning which no one could be at ease. it was the state of the
concluded, conscious—as were others—after the words were uttered
condition, and immediately after that informed them that she had left
condition! it’s very hard.”
confession, communion was administered to the dying man, preparations
confidence,” said she, repeating the mistake of so many parents who
conform. however painful it may be to me, should the almighty lay
conform to them and follow them, and let us be persuaded that the less
confronted one another as before.
confusing their minds by dwelling on mystical books that merely awaken
conjecture, but the colonel did not once glance at rostóv, and looked
“connaissez-vous le proverbe:* ‘jerome, jerome, do not roam, but
connections... well, then, you just...”
conservatory and pantry into the large marble dining hall, where tables
conservatory. there she paused and stood listening to the conversation
conservatory to the place among the tubs where she had been hiding.
considerable pause which made pierre feel uncomfortable.
consider characteristic of the country—rumors of war are heard
considered an adept at french.
considered him conceited, cold, and disagreeable. but among these people
considered important.
considered it his duty to visit him and waited in the lofty antechamber
considered it proper to show an interest in the general conversation by
“consider my position, peter nikoláevich. were i in the cavalry i
consider, prince andrew. two... frederick and suvórov; moreau!...
consider yourself incapable and your life a spoiled life. you have
consulting his sergeant major, zakharchénko, for whom he had great
containing lessons in geometry written by himself and drew up a chair
contemplated between anatole and the little princess’ sister-in-law.
contemptuous look that showed itself on his face.
contented and happy with him. i only wish you were all as happy as i
contention.
    contents
continually and rapidly touching her rosy nether lip when necessary
continually, bringing visitors to the countess rostóva’s big house on
continually changing from french to russian.
continually glanced at prince andrew; prince andrew rubbed his forehead
continually he moved on. the soldiers squeezed themselves to make way
continually receiving many petitioners one after another.
continued. during this interval pierre noticed that prince vasíli
continued his work.
continued. “one would think that as an artillery officer you would set
continued prince vasíli, returning to his theme, apparently not
continued the vicomte. “i pity the poor husband, that little officer
continued to explain how by exchanging into the guards he had already
continued to shout.
continued, with that gay brotherly cordiality which goodhearted young
continuous, varied, and orderly activity. the motion of the small foot
contrary to bilíbin’s forecast the news he had brought was joyfully
contrary. we wanted liberty, but buonaparte has destroyed it.”
contrasted with his flattering words, “on the contrary, your
conveniently to keep them under observation, brought them into the
conventional things with no definite meaning, especially if
conversation.
conversation.
conversation always related entirely to himself; he would remain calm
conversation, and though anna pávlovna felt sure he would say something
conversation began prince andrew was struck by the fact that the emperor
conversation but think it necessary to move about and talk, in order
conversation, evidently with no wish to take part in it. he answered the
conversation, gave no reply.
conversation in french.
conversation—“i often think how unfairly sometimes the joys of life
cooked before we reach our quarters.”
coquettish manner in which she spoke to other men, “the vicomte has
correct.
correct. as soon as bonaparte (who was at schönbrunn, sixteen miles
corridor to the cabinet where the minister of war was at work. the
cossack scouts were moving. suddenly on the road at the top of the high
“cossack!” she said threateningly.
cough.
coughing of the musicians were heard from the gallery.
could be discerned.
could be felt, but the nearer prince andrew came to the french lines the
could be seen, and in three places to left and right the french troops
could get more rewards by doing nothing on the staff, and had succeeded
could hear. “i thank you all! god be praised!” and he rode past that
could not help seeing these people, took any notice of them. “it seems
could not move it. he smashed a pane.
could not say with certainty whether the attack had been repulsed or his
could not think of it without tears, and did not know which had behaved
could reach, there were the rattle of wheels, the creaking of carts
count.
count against him, he nevertheless on the day of his arrival went to
count, and having kissed his wife’s hand he went back to his study.
count bezúkhov’s distress some fifteen times.
count coming out from the dining hall into the anteroom, and he added:
“count!... don’t ruin a young fellow... here is this wretched money,
countenance.
countenances became calm; soldiers and officers greeted him gaily, grew
counterattack. if they attack our center we, having the center battery
countermarches, things of which i understand nothing; and the day
“countess apráksina, poor thing, has lost her husband and she has
countess’ gigantic footman in his bass voice, entering the drawing
countess. “i have never seen a handsomer man.”
countess rostóva’s carriage in which they were seated drove over the
countess rostóva, with her daughters and a large number of guests, was
countess with a gentle smile, looking at borís and went on, evidently
count. he has, no doubt, forgotten it and will wish to destroy it.
count is very fond of pierre, looked after his education, and wrote to
“count lichtenfels was here this morning,” bilíbin continued,
“count rostóv asks you to come to dinner today,” said he, after a
country do we get any rest? theatricals, hunting, and heaven knows what
countryside—“see, our infantrymen have already got there. look there
“count...” said telyánin drawing nearer to him.
count’s niece, entered with a cold, stern face. the length of her
count’s services, his request would be granted?...”
count’s visitors settled themselves, some in the two drawing rooms,
count, with playful ceremony somewhat in ballet style, offered his
count,” yet ashamed to call him “father.”
couple. in the intervals of the dance the count, breathing deeply, waved
courage and endurance—acknowledged even by the enemy—with which the
“courage, courage, my friend! he has asked to see you. that is
courage. next he thought that his enemy would send the squadron on a
courage, so he drew himself up and looked around him merrily; then it
course of events in the forthcoming action in broad outline. he
courtierlike quickness and tact habitual to her, anna pávlovna
“cousinage—dangereux voisinage,” * she added.
     * cousinhood is a dangerous neighborhood.
covered this movement of the transport and of the whole army, had to
cover of the small box, and assumed his usual tranquil and impenetrable
cowshed nor rostóv back with his platoon from foraging for hay had any
coyness and reserve of manner, she reminded one of a pretty, half-grown
creaks or makes more noise than it should, and hastens to check the
cream.”
“crew, to your guns!” commanded the officer.
cried her eyes out,” she said, growing more and more lively.
criticism and was about to reply, when the expected footsteps were heard
crossed himself and kissed the icon. there was a look of tenderness, for
crossed the ballroom, pointing to natásha.
crossing a road they descended a steep incline and saw several men
cross the lech, we can cross the danube, throw ourselves on his line
crowded round a pockmarked, broad-shouldered sergeant major who, tilting
crowded together close to his wheels and his horses. “what a fellow!
crowd had to wait.
crowd of soldiers. “it can’t be an attack, for they are not moving;
crush the contemptible detachment that stood before him.
cry. “i need five hundred rubles, and have only one twenty-five-ruble
crying. sónya tried to lift her head to answer but could not, and
cry or to laugh. prince andrew shrugged his shoulders and frowned, as
cry. prince andrew evidently felt ill at ease, but to the two women
cunning smile, as if flattered at being made the subject of zherkóv’s
cupboards, and little tables. the quilt of a high, white feather bed was
cup of vodka for the men from me,” he added so that the soldiers
curly head to her knees and made the whole room ring with her laughter.
current of his thoughts, “that anatole is costing me forty thousand
cut!”
damned fool!” cried denísov, not pronouncing his r’s. “such ill
dance) began to sound, all the doorways of the ballroom were suddenly
danger. “i am convinced that we russians must die or conquer,” he
danube covered with pine forests, with a mystic background of green
danube, marching on us, you, and your lines of communication.”
dared complain, i who am deprived of all who are dear to me? ah, if
dared to treat márya dmítrievna in this fashion.
daren’t say so. it will be as i said at the beginning of the campaign,
dark-haired man. this was the celebrated petersburg doctor, lorrain.
dark hairs were already showing on his upper lip, and his whole face
darted forward at every word or gesture of the commander in chief,
darted in and stopped short in the middle of the room. it was evident
daughter and placing an arm on the back of the chair on which she sat,
daughter, entered the drawing room, their dresses rustling.
daughter got up to go and the two young men rose to let them pass.
daughter’s face that it was only mischief, she shook a finger at her
day he is sensible, well educated, and good-natured, and the next he’s
day... natásha, what have i done to deserve it?...”
days.”
day,” said the visitor. “what a charming child,” she added,
day was mapped out, the prince rested and the princess played the
day we are keeping. but mind you come to dinner or i shall be offended,
dear and precious friend, how terrible and frightful a thing is
dear and precious friend, your letter of the 13th has given me great
“dear countess, what an age... she has been laid up, poor child ...
“dear, dear! just look at her!” exclaimed the countess as she
“dear doctor,” said she, “this young man is the count’s son. is
‘dearest foe! flower of the austrian army, hero of the turkish wars!
dear invalid?” said she, as though unaware of the cold offensive look
“dear me, can i have forgotten? no, i remember thinking that you kept
dear, merry child. i have grown so fond of her.”
“dear princess, i beg and implore you, have some pity on him! je vous
dear, there’s friendship for you,” he repeated. “he’s joining
dear. we will see how tarás distinguishes himself today. he says count
death, is here above me and around... another instant and i shall never
death,” thought bolkónski.
decently here,” continued telyánin. “now then, let me have it.”
declared that he will leave it to the french people themselves to choose
declares in ze manifessto zat he cannot fiew wiz indifference ze danger
declined: i have my daughters to consider.”
deeply.
deep wrinkles would crease his cheeks. his small, deep-set eyes always
defeat, there were many circumstances confirming the unfavorable rumors
defection, ran at a trot, panting to catch up with his company. a cannon
defending us—doing it very badly, i think, but still he is defending
defense—as much as to say: ‘heaven is with us, but heaven help you
defense of vienna was no longer to be thought of. instead of an
deferential young man who had entered. “bring me...” he reflected
definite idea of her, he turned away and addressed michael ivánovich.
deliberately spoken word. it was evident that kutúzov himself listened
delicate dark down was just perceptible, was too short for her teeth,
delight. so you still love me, my romantic julie? separation, of which
demanded.
demand satisfaction of his regimental commander?”
“demosthenes, i know thee by the pebble thou secretest in thy golden
denísov.
denísov began to laugh.
denísov frowned and was about to shout some reply but stopped.
denísov galloped up to him.
denísov glanced at rostóv.
denísov joined nesvítski.
“denísov, let him alone, i know who has taken it,” said rostóv,
denísov remained silent and did not move, but occasionally looked with
denísov sat gloomily biting his mustache and listening to the
denísov screwed up his face and pointing over his shoulder with his
denísov’s face puckered still more.
denísov smiled, took out of his sabretache a handkerchief that diffused
denísov’s new cloak and saddlecloth.
denísov’s voice from the next room.
denísov. “they keep dwagging the wegiment to and fwo all day. if they
denísov threw both pillows on the floor. the purse was not there.
denísov were his worst enemy, firmly fixed his eyes directly on his
deprecating expression of a dog when it rapidly but feebly wags its
depressed, “i shall be only too glad if you relieve me of that young
“dere has neffer been a gase,” a german doctor was saying to an
description of the last petersburg fete she addressed her brother:
description. the old man began to sing, in the cracked voice of old age:
desperate attack just to punish him—rostóv. then he imagined how,
desperation slammed the door with all her might.
despite the general’s presence were talking loudly and gesticulating.
destiny of our adored monarch. he will save europe!”
     destroyed, and you find that a cause for jesting!”
detachment no one knew anything of the general position of affairs. they
details of his disaster he understood that half the campaign was lost,
devoured him with his eyes, drawing himself up obsequiously, and from
diamonds, she passed between the men who made way for her, not looking
did, especially toward evening when he had emptied his second bottle; he
did not see you.”
did not suit her faded features, always played round her lips expressed,
did not wait to be called. the shapely figure of the fair-haired
did novosíltsev get? none. the english have not understood and cannot
did she not show any trace of coquetry, but on the contrary she even
did you come here?”
“‘dieu me la donne, gare à qui la touche!’’ * they say he was
“dieu! mon dieu!” muttered anna pávlovna in a terrified whisper.
“dieu sait quand reviendra. go to the dining room.”
“dieu sait quand reviendra.” hummed the prince out of tune and, with
differed only in that one had a little mole on her lip which made her
different from themselves and from everyone else, expected great things
difficult for artillery and cavalry to retire. prince andrew took
difficulty.
difficulty out of the front door.
dim, but definite and in the concise form in which he imagined himself
dining room where his daughter-in-law, princess mary, and mademoiselle
dinner all who came “to congratulate.” the countess wished to have
dinner at the rostóvs’?”
dinner,” cried several voices. “we’ll take you in hand.”
din of shouting more incessant. soldiers floundering knee-deep in mud
diplomatist?” asked prince andrew after a momentary silence.
diplomats, evidently had its own interests which had nothing to do with
diplomats who are esteemed because they have certain negative qualities,
dip. prince andrew, being always near the commander in chief, closely
direct descent and ascent to the brook separating us from schön
directing the march rode backward and forward between the carts. their
dirty feather bed on the top of the chest, crumpling her gauzy pink
disagreeable tone to prince hippolyte who was blocking his path.
disappeared he noticed that the eyes of all in the room turned to him
disapprovingly, but in whispers and as a great secret.
disastrous was about to happen.
discipline, if you allow a subordinate to address you like that!’ it
discuss so minutely and acutely all the recent european military and
disgrace such as that of ulm, or to utter destruction. but to forestall
disgrace the whole regiment? disgrace the whole regiment because of one
dismissed from here; therefore, you can stay and go with us wherever our
dismounted. he gave the reins to a cossack, took off and handed over his
disorder and was retreating upon the kiev grenadiers. prince bagratión
dispatch? you know everything.”
disposition of the forces, so as to know his bearings should he be sent
dispute with the french grenadier. they were naturally talking about the
disrespectful manner of the exhausted clerk, the fact that the clerk and
dissatisfied, interrupted by another, an unfamiliar voice. from the
dissipated life of his son anatole, the son whom they were planning to
distance and puckering the skin above his left eye, “malgré la haute
distance that allowed every softly spoken word to be heard, followed
distinctly, but as often happens had not understood a word of what they
distinctness.
distinguished air which inspired respect. princess anna mikháylovna
distinguished him from everyone else in that drawing room.
distressed, and breathed painfully, but could not restrain the wild
distressed that his stout and clumsy body took up so much room and doing
disturbed.
divine saviour has left for our guidance here below. let us try to
dmítri, a man of good family who had been brought up in the count’s
dmítrievna.
dmítrievna produced no less impression by slight exertions—the least
dmítrievna’s deep voice suddenly inquired from the other end of the
“do come.”
doctor’s wife.
doctor’s wife, who was calling him her deliverer, and recalling with
doctor with a bow and approached them silently and with a look of
does not even attempt to hide its artificiality) of a man who is
doesn’t make a mess of things!”
does she bother me?” and she added, turning to véra, “you’ll
doing right. anna mikháylovna nodded approvingly. again pierre fell
do it.”
dólokhov.
dólokhov.
dólokhov, an officer of the semënov regiment, a notorious gambler and
dólokhov climbed carefully and slowly through the window and lowered
dólokhov did not answer the captain; he had been drawn into a hot
dólokhov has been degraded to the ranks and bezúkhov’s son sent
dólokhov hurriedly interrupted.
dólokhov looked round but did not say anything, nor did the mocking
dólokhov’s back in his white shirt, and his curly head, were lit
dólokhov slowly straightened his bent knee, looking straight with his
dólokhov smiled. “don’t trouble. if i want anything, i won’t
dólokhov’s reply.
dólokhov still sat in the same position, only his head was thrown
dólokhov stood frowning and did not speak. pierre jumped upon the
dólokhov’s words into english. a thin young lad, an hussar of the
dólokhov, the bottle of rum still in his hand, jumped onto the window
dólokhov turned round and, again holding on with both hands, arranged
dólokhov was holding the englishman’s hand and clearly and distinctly
dólokhov was of medium height, with curly hair and light-blue eyes. he
dólokhov, who had already changed into a soldier’s gray greatcoat,
domestic serfs were crowding in the hall, waiting to bid good-by to
done for him! i hope that here in moscow no one will receive him, in
done shall be. now listen! give this letter to michael ilariónovich. *
done the job just as well.”
do next. anna mikháylovna with her eyes indicated a chair that stood
“do not let us lose any time...”
“don’t, borís! you are such a diplomat that it is really
don’t feel that weakness in myself as yet, i know a little person who
don’t get promoted to a sublieutenancy.”
“don’t joke; i mean to have a serious talk with you. do you know
“don’t kick up the dust, you infantry!” jested an hussar whose
don’t know how to hide what i feel.” as he spoke he kept glancing
don’t know me. we have not met for such a long time... not since we
“don’t like bowwowing from my own fellows, i don’t,” growled
“don’t mention it, general, as if i’d be so bold!” replied the
don’t need it? now you shall judge between us. i always tell him: here
“don’t tease! well, and what has been decided about novosíltsev’s
“don’t touch him! you’ll startle him and then he’ll be killed.
“don’t touch me,” said rostóv, drawing back. “if you need it,
don’t trouble yourself further.”
don’t wish to let me go, i’ll stay. but i know i am no use anywhere
“don’t you want to? well, then, come here,” said she, and
door, and added in a whisper so that her son should not hear, “wish me
door opened quickly and the stern figure of the old man in the white
door. while he was getting down from the carriage steps two men, who
doppelkümmel. the officers gladly gathered round him, some on their
“do promise, do promise, vasíli!” cried anna mikháylovna as he
“do stop joking, bilíbin,” cried bolkónski.
do the doctors say?” asked the princess after a pause, her worn face
do the right thing.
do they look at me?” then he lifted his head, stretched his neck as
do this for my son—and i shall always regard you as a benefactor,”
do to get here.”
down!”
down. anna mikháylovna indicated by her attitude her consciousness of
down laws for austria at schönbrunn, il faut lui faire grâce de
down, lightly touched his daughter’s hair and sat down again.
down on a sofa near the silver samovar, as if all she was doing was a
down on one of the tubs, picked it up.
down on the sofa, facing her brother. “she is quite a child: such a
down the room for a long time, no longer piercing an imaginary foe with
down the wax, the seal, and the paper, with his accustomed rapidity.
down to her neck and shoulders while nicholas was speaking.
downwards as was his habit.
downward. when pierre came up the count was gazing straight at him, but
“do you know,” he said at last, evidently unable to check the sad
“do you know, mon cher,” said bilíbin following him, “i have been
“do you know?” said pierre, as if suddenly struck by a happy
“do you know, that fat pierre who sat opposite me is so funny!” said
     *do you know the proverb?
“do you know, you are a terrible chap for all your innocent airs,”
“do you or do you not know where that will is?” insisted prince
do you remain silent when heaven knows who permits herself to
“do you remember me?” asked borís quietly with a pleasant smile.
“do you see?... my doll... mimi... you see...” was all natásha
“do you think he can last till morning?” asked the german,
“do you think so?... really? truly?” she said, quickly smoothing her
“do you understand what you’re saying?” he said in a trembling
dozens of soldiers, continually replaced by others, who ran from the
dragoons. in the center, where túshin’s battery stood and from which
draw breath.
drawing room.
drawing room.
drawing room.
drawing room. and, in fact, bilíbin’s witticisms were hawked about
drawing room, approaching now a silent, now a too-noisy group, and by a
drawing room, helped to receive and entertain the visitors. the young
dress as fresh and elegant as the other. prince andrew rose and politely
dressed and undressed, drying their shirts and leg bands or mending
dressed for his attendance at court in full parade uniform, which he
dress, girdled with a broad ribbon just below the breast.
dressing gown looked out.
dressing gown, spectacled and wigless, shouting in an angry voice.
dress under her, hiding her face with her slender fingers, and sobbing
drew her chair nearer to that of the countess.
drew his saber, and with a happy and resolute countenance, opening
dried and warmed themselves, cooked their porridge for the first time
driving into the court of count bezúkhov’s house. as the wheels
drooping tail.
dropped it into a leather pouch attached to the lathe, and, approaching
dropping her voice. “my wretched lawsuit takes all i have and makes no
dropping into his usual after-dinner nap, and laughed at everything.
drubetskáya, who as a member of the household was also seated in the
drummer, their leader, turned round facing the singers, and flourishing
duc even the most partial ceased to regard him as a hero. if to some
duelist, who was living with anatole. pierre smiled, looking about him
dull expression.
dull eyes looked at him in silence. it seemed to prince andrew that the
dull without you,” said she, giving him a tender smile.
during the battle, and feeling reassured he dozed off.... the dark
during the five years he had known her, and how her head had cracked
dust from the sleeve of his uniform, and going up to a mirror examined
duties on you, and you must be a man.”
duty. the emperor is gracious, and i shan’t forget you if you deserve
dying father. “it is painful, but it does one good. it uplifts the
dying man, but passed by him, joined the eldest princess, and moved
dying man wished to see, her own admission was assured. casting a rapid
dying of fright. i did, ‘pon my word, i got that frightened!” said
each ascent or descent of the road the crowds were yet denser and the
each other’s arms warmly pressing their lips to whatever place they
each time he touched his forehead. his face wore a calm look of piety
each visitor performed the ceremony of greeting this old aunt whom not
eagerly and rather disdainfully, not resting on anything although his
easy. and tell me, please—i’ve been meaning to ask—how is he
easy to take marshals, sitting on a sofa by the fire! that is true, but
ebook or online at www.gutenberg.org
écossaise was ended, he clapped his hands to the musicians and shouted
effected the dangerous crossing of the straits of dover and captured
effect on everyone, smiled and, evidently unmoved by what had been
effort. the bottle was emptying perceptibly and rising still higher
effort to look at the servant who stood constantly at the head of the
effort to move her shoulders or bend her arms when turning, or stamp
effort to say this. “without a name and without means... and it
effrayée, as he called it, shoes, and silk stockings.
egged on against each other.
“eh, eh, friend! come here a bit,” said she, assuming a soft high
“eh? what?” asked prince andrew.
eh?... what then?... eh?”
either. don’t i know that at the rate we are living our means won’t
elder daughter, countess véra, with a smile.
elderly face, and she took the money from under the handkerchief.
elders.
eldest princess, who were sitting under the portrait of catherine the
eldest who was reading—the one who had met anna mikháylovna. the
elegantly. bilíbin’s services were valued not only for what he wrote,
else,” replied anna pávlovna.
embarrassing attentions. on the face of the wag zherkóv there suddenly
embarrassment looked pierre straight in the face.
embittered look clouded her once handsome face, but only for a moment;
embroidered court uniform, knee breeches, and shoes, and had stars on
emitting a smoke ring.
emperor, about the remarks he had heard at court concerning the krems
emperor francis would have been fulfilled long ago. i should long
emperor napoleon burns with impatience to make prince auersperg’s
emperor napoleon if we take this bridge, so let us three go and take
emphatically.
emptied them, rolling the vodka in their mouths, and walked away from
encampment, and not within sight of the enemy before an action in
en conjure...”
encounter one another at the clean, smart hussars who moved past them in
“encouraging us to get along quicker,” said another uneasily.
ended with a thud into something soft... f-f-flop! and a cossack, riding
ending pierre’s unpleasant and unamiable outburst. after the anecdote
end of his gun...” a soldier whose greatcoat was well tucked up said
endure this man who is a menace to everything.”
enemy’s horse patrols could be discerned.
enemy three times as strong, who would hem him in from two sides.
engagement and his reception by the minister of war.
“england is done for,” said he, scowling and pointing his finger
engrossed by it, yet his strut seemed to indicate that, besides military
enjoyed narrating all this, and did not seem to suspect that others,
enormous table would say: “well, dmítri, you’ll see that things are
enough to see a long way in the deserted street and it seemed more like
entered.
entered his father’s dressing room (not with the contemptuous look and
entered, the bronze handle of one of the doors turned and prince vasíli
entered their heads that it could have been otherwise at this meeting.
entered the room.
entered the room.
entering the house, prince andrew saw nesvítski and another adjutant
enter that room.
entrance, after scrutinizing the mother and son (who without asking to
entrance. the prince was working at the lathe and after glancing round
entreaties. soon after anna pávlovna’s reception anna mikháylovna
entrenchments being thrown up, the freshly dug clay of which showed up
entrenchments looked out just as menacingly, and the unlimbered cannon
entrenchment. they had to hold their noses and put their horses to a
epaulettes had been packing with his valet in the rooms assigned to him.
equality. have people since the revolution become happier? on the
equip him.”
escape, and bagratión’s four thousand men merrily lighted campfires,
escape it anyhow.”
escorted him to the door, repeating something to him several times in
especially after having dined, bolkónski felt that he could not take in
essential, and after a short interval followed her. anna mikháylovna
established intimacy with the french marshals, and so dazzled by the
estime que je professe pour the orthodox russian army, j’avoue que
estrangement, and ridicule with which troops of different arms usually
“even if it were a great deal of trouble...” answered prince andrew,
evening light and the blue tunics advancing from the other side with
evening. there was room enough in the wide corridor for the generals to
even in his way; but all at once he felt that this would not do, and
even in the best, most friendly and simplest relations of life, praise
evenly, and then raised his head. he had an intellectual and distinctive
even more so. i like being alone.... father likes her very much. she and
even pushed aside, he began wrapping it round the princess. either from
event must be allowed to disturb the appointed order of the day. prince
even try to do so. all were watching the count and márya dmítrievna.
ever since he had overtaken the regiment in poland, had lived with the
“everybody is wondering to whom the count will leave his fortune,
everybody laughed, and hippolyte louder than anyone. he was evidently
every muscle of telyánin’s pale, terrified face began to quiver, his
everyone.
everyone again looked toward the door, which creaked as the second
“everyone has his achilles’ heel,” continued prince andrew.
everyone, including anna pávlovna, felt this.
everyone’s situation. tout comprendre, c’est tout pardonner. * think
everyone waited, so emphatically and eagerly did he demand their
everything and everybody at last and had spoken such pathetic words to
everything before you, everything. and you....”
everything from the table napkins to the silver, china, and glass bore
everything. i often wonder at you, annette—how at your age you
everything, only i have nothing....”
everything!” said nicholas. “and i will prove it to you.”
everything that took place and was reported to him was exactly what he
every time a ball flew past. rostóv on the left flank, mounted on his
everywhere. he might easily become aide-de-camp to the emperor. you know
evident duty.” she paused. all were silent, expectant of what was to
evidently did not expect.
evidently glad of a chance to say quicker in words what he wanted to
evidently in a fit of rage, his coal-black eyes with their bloodshot
evidently in the village itself and behind the hill. to the left from
evidently listening to herself with pleasure, and speaking with
evidently rigged up by soldiers out of any available materials and
evidently the prince understood her, and also understood, as he had done
evident that he not only knew everyone in the drawing room, but had
evident that the cadet was liberal with his tips and that it paid to
exacting, so that without being a hardhearted man he inspired such fear
exactitude. he always came to table under precisely the same conditions,
exaggerated grasseyement, “the prince has been scolding michael
exaggeration quite contrary to christian simplicity. let us rather read
exceedingly lofty, the members of the household and the footmen—one
excellency?... nobody knows.”
excellency’s participation in the common action is highly valued by
except a few scattered skirmishers. an empty space of some seven hundred
except in the army; i am not a diplomat or a government clerk.—i
exception made, and borís transferred into the regiment of semënov
except veneration could such a man as my father evoke? and i am so
excited and irritated by these thoughts prince andrew went toward his
excitedly animated and healthy men.” so thinks, or at any rate
excitement.
excitement.
excitement, around chin and mouth. the quartermaster frowned, looking
exclaimed in excellent french.
exclamation he was asking the adjutant to wait, and he went on with the
“excuse me, general,” interrupted kutúzov, also turning to prince
excuse me, vicomte—i must tell it in russian or the point will be
executing of the plan.
expectations of those who knew her. the subdued smile which, though it
expected to be at once presented to the emperor. at the chief entrance
expect he has forgotten me. he paid me attentions in those days,” said
expecting a crisis.”
expecting anything from yourself in the future, you will feel at every
expecting that he would have a chance to give a reliable account, which
expecting the summons to zakúska, * avoid engaging in any long
expecting to hear something very profound. at last he came up to morio.
expecting two very interesting men tonight, le vicomte de mortemart, who
expedition.... but what’s the southern army to do? prussia is
experiencing a new and peculiar pleasure. sónya, muttering to herself,
explained how to rivet the hoof and went away to his own quarters.
explaining that dólokhov was betting with stevens, an english naval
explanations, however clear they might be. whether it was the
exposed—and she seemed to bring the glamour of a ballroom with her as
exposed. another emissary rode to the russian line to announce the peace
exposed! if i were asked what i desire most on earth, it would be to be
expose to a bullet, and then you congratulate us on the victory! admit
expressed impetuosity and enthusiasm. nicholas blushed when he entered
expressed the concentrated and happy resolution you see on the face of
expressing... as in its last note... you understand... besides, unless
expression. “c’est... c’est du mack. nous sommes mackés (it is...
expression, evidently habitual to him when conversing with women.
expression. it was the heavy tread of princess mary that he heard.
expression of profound and sincere devotion and respect mingled with
expression on his face changed in a way evidently deliberate and
expression only in her more and more beaming face and quivering nose.
expressions with the choicest french phrases—which was a peculiarity
expression—the same man who had rushed out of the wattle shed. at that
expression. véra was good-looking, not at all stupid, quick at
expression which was never to be seen on it in a drawing room. his eyes
externally was all in order, but had it pleased the commander in chief
extraordinary may happen to one that honor and dishonor will be all the
extrémités de l’univers, nous allons lui faire éprouver le même
extricated himself from an awkward situation and placed another in it,
eyebrows which, when he frowned, sometimes hid the gleam of his shrewd,
eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of god, are
eyes.
eyes and ears intent on the colonel.
eyes had uttered french phrases between his teeth. every muscle of his
eyes lit up so that her face was entirely transformed. then she suddenly
eye socket. “yes, he has a right to speak so calmly of those men’s
eyes still shifted from side to side but with a downward look not rising
eyes. the englishman looked on sideways, pursing up his lips. the man
eyes. then having satisfied himself that all eyes were fixed on him,
eyes. the sick man was turned on to his side with his face to the wall.
eyes, went with unusually hurried steps down the long corridor leading
face.
face, already growing old, though he was dressed like a most fashionable
face, and again at the arm, and on his face a feeble, piteous smile
face and just nodded to him with his long head. but after it was
face, and prince andrew saw that hippolyte, of whom—he had to
face as if driving off a troublesome fly. “and why are you stopping
face assumed a forced unnatural expression as soon as she looked in a
face assumed its melancholy expression), “he was mentioned at her
face changed into a winning and piteous look of fear. her beautiful eyes
face; his eyes continually wandered from one object to another.
face instantly changed and assumed an offensively affected, sugary
face in the lace of her mother’s mantilla—not paying the least
face. “let him see whether i am a coward!” he thought.
face looked worn—he too had evidently not slept all night. he glanced
faces, the wall of soldiers burdened with knapsacks and muskets marched
face to prince andrew, smiled, and waved his hand.
face, which had been so radiantly happy all that saint’s day, suddenly
facing the quartermaster who was reporting to him. on seeing rostóv,
fact.
fact of a great man executing a duc—or even an ordinary man who—is
failed. borís on the contrary at once found his footing, and related
faithfully as i can, without disquieting myself by examining my feelings
‘faithful slave,’ as you call yourself! but how do you do? i see i
fallen!”
fallen, and an old trooper on the flank, a noncommissioned officer who
familiar voice. “one is afraid of the unknown, that’s what it is.
familiar voice, “what i say is that if it were possible to know
family consultation; is it not so, prince?”
“fancy, with his powerful mind, indulging in such nonsense!”
far. by intrigues, violence, exile, and executions, french society—i
fast as her nimble little feet would carry her. borís did not laugh.
fast asleep with his head on his arm.
fate and in spite of the pleasures and distractions around me i cannot
fate, her father-in-law, and her husband. after crying she had fallen
     fate—(the fate of the army at ulm).”
fat finger.
father and son. this lasted about two minutes, which to pierre seemed an
father-in-law and now at princess mary. when they left the table she
father in order to puzzle or test his sister.
“father kutúzov.”
father’s face with an eager and respectful look. “how is your
father’s friendship for you; but now i entreat you for god’s sake to
father’s ridicule of the new men, and drew him on and listened to him
father’s study as the latter wished to say good-by to him alone. all
father there would be nothing i could reproach you with,” said anna
father to be a connection of prince vasíli’s. the elderly lady who
father to the ambassador’s entertainment; she wore a ball dress and
favorite, “how is it you have so little tact? don’t you see you are
fear appeared on her flushed face.
feared him.
fearing to be captured by the french on the way to krems.
fearing to relax, shouted with his mouth wide open and passed on.
fear would prevent her understanding any of her father’s further
features. nicholas was short with curly hair and an open expression.
feeble voice of the commander in chief was heard. the regiment roared,
feeble voice to which he tried to impart a dashing note, ill-suited to
feeling of sickening agitation.
feelings in others, and if never having felt them i cannot approve of
feel like it, she became enthusiastic in order not to disappoint the
feels, anyone who comes in sight of the enemy, and that feeling gives
feet that moved through the sticky mud that covered the planks of the
feet were the only sounds that could be heard. anna mikháylovna, with
feigned severity. “you spoil her, ilyá,” she added, turning to her
fell from him. he was glad, and at the same instant began to pity the
fellow could have played such a prank on a policeman.
fellows have all lost your wits, or i have outlived mine. may god help
fellow! what you have just said is good, very good. of course you
felt it indecorous to speak of her pregnancy before pierre, though the
felt perfectly happy. just then the commander appeared on the bridge.
felt that the battle of which he had brought tidings was far, far
felt the impossibility of going to sleep on such a night. it was light
ferdinand disgraces himself. you abandon vienna, give up its
festivities and fireworks are becoming wearisome.”
fetch the frenchman, moreau,” he said, alluding to the invitation made
feu, et oublie celui qu’il devait faire faire sur l’ennemi!” *(2)
field glass and shrugging his shoulders, “so it is! they’ll be fired
fight bonaparte by this new science you call ‘strategy.’”
fight. you’ll see—we shall retire.”
filled by the domestic serfs—the men on one side and the women on
find, and still seeks, some secret motive in our actions. what answer
fine cords would soon get a bit rubbed,” said an infantryman, wiping
    * fine eyes.
fine! i don’t want anything, prince.”
fine,” said a corporal, chaffing a thin little soldier who bent under
fingers, drew out a gold imperial, and lifting his eyebrows gave it to
finished.
finished phrases of general interest. these sayings were prepared in the
firing incendiary balls at the village of schön grabern visible just
firmness, and expedition. i consider myself fortunate to have such a
first appearance in society. anna pávlovna greeted him with the nod she
    first epilogue: 1813 - 20
first he had ever written. borís and natásha were at the other window
first not only what had been said but also what kutúzov would have
“first of all, dear friend, tell me how you are. set your friend’s
“first of all you must drink!”
first of one and then of another priest.
first place because her provinces have been pillaged—they say the holy
“first-rate,” said pierre, looking at dólokhov, who with a bottle
first time since their encounter concerning telyánin. rostóv, feeling
first to one side and then to the other watched the smokers with evident
fist, and tapped it on the floor, making the sparks fly, while he
five in the afternoon,” replied bolkónski growing more animated and
five times. he entered the room softly. the little princess, plump and
five years, if he goes on like this?” presently he added: “that’s
fixed on.
fixed on her.
fixed straight on his son’s. something twitched in the lower part of
flabby that they looked heavier below, were twitching violently; but
flank,” he said to himself, “the kiev grenadiers and the podólsk
flayed, some not, and broken-down carts beside which solitary soldiers
flourished his castanets as if threatening someone. the soldiers,
flourishing his arm, called him to enter.
flower tubs and hid there.
flung it down and began:
followed anna mikháylovna out of the carriage, and only then began
followed by a cossack.
followed by the owner of the manly voice, a dashing infantry officer who
followed him in, as if there were now no further need for permission to
followed singly. the footmen began moving about, chairs scraped, the
follow, for this was clearly only a prelude.
following passage, in german, from the archduke ferdinand’s letter:
following the mass movements and general orders, and constantly studying
following the princess, whom a footman was helping into the carriage.
follows that pierre will not be pierre but will become count bezúkhov,
follows the current of his own thoughts, “things will have gone too
footing that all who knew them, including anatole himself, respected him
footmen and cooks were getting the supper, count bezúkhov had a
foot to foot uncertain with which to start, then settled down, galloped
for a few seconds collected his thoughts. then the russian ambassador
“forage has not been supplied to the extent...”
for a long time pierre could not understand, but when he did, he jumped
for a mere fancy?” said nicholas taking her hand.
for anything and i never will again, nor have i ever reminded you of my
forehead.
forehead, wetting him with her tears. then after a pause she said:
“forever?” said the little girl. “till death itself?”
for everything, the colonel moved forward and ordered the second
forgetting that she was dancing with a grown-up partner she bent her
for girls and boys.”
forgotten. our duty, my dear, is to rectify his mistake, to ease his
for him.
for him, but again pressed on him so that they jammed his leg, and those
formed the picket line on either side, there were many curious onlookers
“for me? for me?... trying for me!...” said she.
former position. a huge, broad-shouldered gunner, number one, holding
“for not dilly-dallying and not hanging to a woman’s apron strings.
for russia, for the orthodox greek faith! all that is beautiful, but
for some days in moscow and was staying as usual at his father’s
for the attainment of that purpose.
for the countess.”
for the good we have done them.’ father took her when she was homeless
for the two approaching battalions. while he was speaking, the curtain
(for they were speaking french) at least with a russian who would, he
for three days, and not one of them knew or imagined what was in store
fortnight’s retreat, the russian troops had halted and after a fight
“for tomorrow!” said he, quickly finding the page and making a
     * “forty thousand men massacred and the army of our allies
forward and, stooping over the dying man, beckoned to lorrain from
forward beside schmidt with the bullets merrily whistling all around,
forward. “company commanders!” he shouted in a voice accustomed to
for your obstinacy,” said kírsten.
for your sake.”
found.”
found expression in calling her maid “my dear” and speaking to her
found them to be so tiresome that it wearied him to look at or listen to
four thousand strong, to the right across the hills from the krems-znaim
four times—till i get what i want. i don’t mind what they think of
fragmentary sentences tried to explain about a doll which she produced
francis received him standing in the middle of the room. before the
frantically, had such an effect that they managed to squeeze through
freckled gunner in a merry voice, standing to attention.
freedom i could understand it and should be the first to enter the army;
french. a group of cossack scouts retired down the hill at a trot. all
french battalion rushes to the bridgehead, spikes the guns, and the
french. but this adjutant returned half an hour later with the news that
french families. he is one of the genuine émigrés, the good ones. and
french forestall him at znaim meant the exposure of his whole army to a
frenchman, holding him down by the sleeve in a friendly way to prevent
french since suvórov met them. he feared that bonaparte’s genius
french, there would be great hope of saving the army; to let the
french though he spoke it badly, offered to conduct prince andrew.
french, turning to a general, “my husband is deserting me? he is going
frenchwoman blushed and went away without a word. when he reached his
friend...”
friend.”
friend a model of perfection because prince andrew possessed in the
friendly words to officers he had known in the turkish war, sometimes
friend’s hand.
friendship.”
friendship at all; i simply feel that the army is my vocation.”
friend, that i look on marriage as a divine institution to which we must
frightened here?” and the artilleryman understood him.
frigid politeness.
frock and hair.
from behind.
“from dürrenstein to krems.”
“from general field marshal kutúzov?” he asked. “i hope it is
“from héloïse?” asked the prince with a cold smile that showed his
from him. “he used to have a predilection for bacchus.”
from him. “there, you see!” and he drew attention to the bullets
from hollabrünn) received murat’s dispatch with the proposal of a
from la grippe; grippe being then a new word in st. petersburg, used
from laughing.
from passing, “won’t this be too much for poor uncle at a moment
from prince andrew to the staff officer.
from sitting on the outer sill was being forced out by two footmen, who
from that distorted mouth issued an indistinct, hoarse sound. anna
from the bottom of the slope, where the parleys had taken place, came
from the doctor to pierre. to him, in a particularly respectful and
from the folds of her frock.
from the guards just before this campaign. he behaved very well in the
from the hill. there was no one now between the squadron and the enemy
from the ranks. a morose soldier marching on the left turned his eyes on
from the revolution leaving the people to anarchy, and napoleon alone
from the right flank, beside which the carriage passed the company,
from the shelf the first book that came to his hand (it was caesar’s
from the way the regimental commander saluted the commander in chief and
from various people and retelling the town gossip.
from vienna kutúzov wrote to his old comrade, prince andrew’s father.
from vienna to znaim was shorter and better than the road for the
from weeping and sat down beside dr. lorrain, who was sitting in a
“from what i have heard,” said pierre, blushing and breaking into
“from where to where, your majesty?”
from which they had dashed out so impetuously, the conversation had
front and men four abreast, spread across the bridge and began to emerge
front. pierre stood smiling but silent. one man, older than the others
fro with dignity, offered surmises about the weather, or touched on
further back till his curly hair touched his shirt collar, and the hand
gaiety with which zherkóv spoke, and to the intentional coldness of
gaily, with a wide swing of his arm.
gained a step on his old comrades of the cadet corps; how in wartime
gallantry lit up his face and as soon as the last figure of the
galloped on to the village where he was told that the commander in chief
“gave him leave? leave? that’s just like you young men,” said the
gave his hand to the plague-stricken; but ... but there are other acts
gazed at bolkónski silently with wide-open eyes.
genealogical tree, shook his head, laughing as a man laughs who looks at
general!”
general.”
general commotion. some eight or nine young men were crowding anxiously
“general, i must obey orders, but i am not bound to endure...”
“general kutúzov,” said bolkónski, speaking french and stressing
generally, prince andrew had, as he had had in petersburg society, two
generally the stronger! i know very well that count nicholas is too
general—of whom austria has so many—and to lay down all this heavy
generals and statesmen of the day. the old prince seemed convinced not
general schmidt, who was killed in the action. his horse had been
general’s three-cornered hat, and held it, pulling at the plume,
general were talking in low voices and kutúzov smiled slightly as
general who had succeeded schmidt. in the passage little kozlóvski was
general who signed that capitulation had no right to do so, and that no
genoa and lucca laying their petitions before monsieur buonaparte, and
gentle look of her large luminous eyes, very beautiful at that moment,
“gentlemen, i’ll do anything. no one shall hear a word from me,”
gentlemen, it is already time for me to go,” replied prince andrew
gentlemen, messieurs les maréchaux, * murat, lannes, and belliard,
gentlemen of the diplomatic corps. with prince hippolyte kurágin,
‘gentlemen,’ says one of them, ‘you know the thabor bridge is
“gentlemen, who wishes to bet with me? i’ll do the same thing!”
german accent, “for the reasson zat ze emperor knows zat. he
gesture. anna pávlovna meditated.
“get in,” said kutúzov, and noticing that bolkónski still delayed,
get ready to dance in the large hall, and the sound of the feet and the
get there and fire the bridge or will the french get within grapeshot
“get well soon, lads!” he continued, turning to the soldiers.
giddy even on a staircase,” exclaimed several voices.
gilt frame, new to him, containing the genealogical tree of the princes
girlish adoration that her smile could not for a single instant impose
girl, you and your sisters are not heiresses! if you don’t believe me,
gist of the matter lay in that.
“give me a biscuit, you devil!”
give me satisfaction...”
“give me that letter,” said kutúzov turning to prince andrew.
“give me time to collect my wits, father,” said he, with a smile
given him by the commander in chief and his fellow officers, prince
given to blow it up. otherwise we should long ago have been in the
gives the singles and snatches the doubles!”
giving him a mild expression, rode up to bagratión and welcomed him as
giving him full liberty to remain with him during the battle or to join
“glad to do our best, your ex’len-lency!” came a confused shout
glance at all those in the room and noticing the count’s confessor
glanced askance at her husband’s face, and her own assumed the timid,
glanced up at her through tears of laughter, and again hid her face.
glancing for support at an officer of the suite who turned away
glancing up at him from under her brows, smiling, and almost crying from
glass, “or i won’t let you go!”
glass. she went on reading:
glass, smiled, and walked toward the other door. natásha was about to
gleamed.
glittering teeth and sparkling eyes. she told of an accident they had
gloomy gravity and glancing round at his comrades, “there is an order
go.
“go and apologize, your excellency. yes, go!”
“god be thanked that you are in time,” said she to one of the
godfather,” she added, as if she attached no importance at all to the
     * god has given it to me, let him who touches it beware!
“god has nothing to do with it! well, go on,” he continued,
goes up to auersperg and says: ‘prince, you are being deceived, here
“go in, annette, or you will catch cold,” said the little princess,
“going?” and he went on writing.
going to the cottage he occupied with denísov.
going toward the door without raising his eyes. denísov paused, thought
gold-embroidered velvet bag. her pretty little upper lip, on which a
golden.”) he cast happy, sidelong glances at his son from under his
golítsyn and he has refused. be the kindhearted man you always were,”
gone out of the conservatory she followed and called borís to her.
“gone? that’s all right!” said he; and looking angrily at the
good and noble in you will be lost. it will all be wasted on trifles.
“good-by.”
good-by!”
“good-by, my dear,” said she to the countess who saw her to the
     * “good god, what simplicity!”
“good health...”
good horse, bedouin, and sitting as though falling backwards in the
good luck.”
goodness, to give us as sovereign! to say nothing of my brothers, this
“good news!... go on!” he shouted to the driver, and they galloped
good news? there has been an encounter with mortier? a victory? it was
good news, though schmidt’s death is a heavy price to pay for the
“good night, lise,” said he, rising and courteously kissing her hand
good part.
good stories about her, while none the less all without exception
“go on, go on!” said the major.
“go on, you must drink it all,” said anatole, giving pierre the last
got back to their horses. two were misdirected and the shot went too
go through your performance.”
“gott, wie naiv!” * said he angrily, after he had gone a few steps.
got up and said something to the ladies. anna mikháylovna stepped
government officials to his table, had unexpectedly selected michael
grabern. on the left our troops were close to a copse, in which smoked
graceful and muscular arms and neck. by the grace of her movements,
graceful pose under a portrait of catherine, leaning his elbow on a
grandee of catherine’s time who now lay dying in moscow. the young man
grandfather, wore it in all his wars.” (she still did not take out
granted.
grapeshot.”
gravity!”
gray overcoats, wounds, the smoke of gunpowder, the sounds of firing,
great and talking eagerly. as soon as they saw pierre and his companion
great deal. of the two soups he chose turtle with savory patties and
greater part of the enemy’s opened out from this battery. just facing
greater zeal than his duty as a commander. thanks to the strictness and
great favor to ask of you.”
great haste and in the greatest disorder. the road was so obstructed
greatness of soul?” said the little princess, smiling and drawing her
great sin. how can one judge father? but even if one might, what feeling
greediness that he wanted it, but simply from a conscientious desire for
grew weary waiting to be relieved. prince andrew halted to have a look
grieved him and yet he was pleased.
grieving at the misfortunes of our common cause, or we are merely
grimace. “i have long wanted to ask you, andrew, why you have changed
groaning aloud and swinging his arm which had just been hurt, while
ground, artillery and troops in blue uniform were seen. these were the
ground, eager to rejoin its fellows, he watched his squadron draw
group of men with yellow shakos, dark-green jackets braided with cord,
group where the vicomte was still talking, and again pretended to
growing impatient, and stamped her foot, ready to cry at his not coming
growing louder and more frequent. evidently our guns had begun to reply.
grown-up young people: véra beside berg, and pierre beside borís; and
guard.
guards. here is my hand on it. are you satisfied?”
guards with the rank of cornet. he received, however, no appointment
guess what he wanted; she pointed first to pierre, then to some drink,
guests joined in. everyone laughed, not at márya dmítrievna’s answer
guests. natásha, who sat opposite, was looking at borís as girls of
guests returned to the drawing room and to the count’s study.
guests were all conversing with one another. “the razumóvskis... it
guests were and exchanging glances with natásha, who was sitting
gun carriage. a cossack who accompanied him had handed him a knapsack
gut morgen!” * he said winking with a merry smile, evidently pleased
habitual, offering his puffy cheek, but bagratión kissed him on the
habitual to him. his face took on the stupid artificial smile (which
had always imagined battles to himself), nor could he help to fire the
had any news. on their familiar faces he read agitation and alarm.
had apparently been running), “and i did so wish to have another talk
had become more intimate when prince andrew was in vienna with kutúzov.
had been playing cards with the majority of the more distinguished and
had been put in position?”
had been repulsed, employing this military term to describe what had
had been sitting with the old aunt rose hurriedly and overtook prince
had been spilled on the carpet. they were met by a deacon with a censer
had been struck on the teeth, or what the ham had to do with it.
had changed greatly during that period. in the expression of his face,
had come from the left flank where their regiment was stationed, with
had conquered, settled down in an armchair, inviting prince vasíli to
had done in petersburg at anna schérer’s reception.
had endured to gain her end.
had evidently been drinking.
had fallen the previous day—the day of the battle. reviewing his
had foreseen. prince andrew, out of breath with his rapid ride, spoke
had had in anna pávlovna’s drawing room. pierre removed his feet from
had happened during that half-hour to the troops entrusted to him, and
had left her kindly and tear-worn face and it now expressed only anxiety
had not exasperated the vicomte, and had convinced herself that it was
had not finished saying what was necessary, thudded into the ground near
had no time. he was afraid of falling behind the hussars, so much afraid
had not only held the field but had repulsed the french. though the
had not worn for a long time, he went into bilíbin’s study fresh,
had not yet come home when rostóv rode back early in the morning from
had not yet entered either the military or civil service, as he had only
“hadn’t i better ride over, your excellency?” asked nesvítski.
had only met once before for a short time at his wedding, were in
had on the spásski hill which might have been serious for her in her
had perished by his own magnanimity, and that there were particular
had persisted in his request to kutúzov, arrived at grunth and reported
had played a little air with variations on the harp, she joined the
had produced a good epigram, a fresh one that would be repeated. his
had reached braunau at the same time, was in splendid condition. there
had stopped beside the dead men, ran to catch up his line and, falling
had the air of a man happily performing one of the most solemn duties of
had the air of one who has suddenly lost faith in the whole human race.
had uttered them.
ha, ha, ha! mary!”
hair above his broad forehead which reminded one of a lion, and the deep
half-closed eyes gave still more persuasiveness to his words. the staff
halfway through supper prince andrew leaned his elbows on the table and,
half whisper, “everyone knows count cyril’s reputation.... he has
hand and said, “come.” pierre went with her to the bed on which the
hand. and there,” he pointed to a sutler’s tent, “they crowd in
hand he drew bagratión toward him, and with his right, on which he wore
hand. “how did you get here?” said he, turning to zherkóv.
handkerchief and rushed from the room.
handkerchiefs to their eyes, and just in front of them their eldest
handleless cup before a table on which tea and a cold supper were laid
hands.
hands....”
hands.”
hand she went up to her husband and kissed him on the forehead.
hands. “just fancy, he didn’t let me win a single cahd, not one
hands, looked attentively into prince vasíli’s eyes evidently
handsome and a terrible scapegrace. that is all i have been able to find
handsome young officer entering his room. pierre paused. he had left
hands were symmetrically placed on the green silk quilt, the palms
hand that was free, and turning sideways felt the pulse and reflected
hand them to the emperor after my death. now here is a lombard bond
hand to her heart, with a beatific smile and obviously equally ready to
hand, was clearing manure from the cowhouse, looked out, and his face
hanging down (she had handed her reticule to the countess), and only her
hanging his head, meekly followed her.
happened to touch. mademoiselle bourienne stood near them pressing her
happy smile, ambling lightly up to the count’s niece. “i have come,
harder from behind.
hardly able to restrain her tears and maintain the artificial smile
hardly had borís gone than sónya, flushed, in tears, and muttering
“has anything happened?” she asked. “i am so terrified.”
has beaten the germans. they beat no one—except one another. he made
“has he taken his medicine?”
has married his first cousin. and we are only second cousins, you know.
“hasn’t been in since the evening. must have been losing,”
has picked up an ax: “we are used to it, but you, sir, will blister
“has prince vasíli aged much?” asked the countess. “i have not
has received a letter and is expecting a visit from prince vasíli. in
has retained in full force.”
has so many relatives in moscow! so you are borís? of course. well, now
has to be cunning and cruel.”
have always, thank god, been my children’s friend and had their full
have a room of your own,” and she took the inkstand from nicholas.
have done for us.”
have done your best to increase his mental sufferings.”
have frightened you—sit down and tell me all the news.”
have gone through,” and she sympathetically turned up her eyes.
have heard the sobs. it seems as though mankind has forgotten the
have it, young man, i’m going.”
have looked at it. take it. well, now go. go.”
have, my dear! i tasted it. the thousand rubles i paid for tarás were
have nothing to complain of.”
have of hope and strength merely weighs you down and torments you with
have received very little, prince vasíli nothing, and it is monsieur
have something to eat.”
have something to tell you. here, here!” and she led him into the
have to call in the french, so that birds of a feather may fight
have two footmen behind her carriage, and very big ones. that was her
“have you a complaint to make?” kutúzov asked with a slight frown.
“have you never thought of marrying your prodigal son anatole?” she
“have you told them to bring the horse?” asked telyánin, getting up
having cleared the way denísov stopped at the end of the bridge.
having given them to the rosy natásha, who beamed with the pleasure
having glanced through the dispatch he laid it on the table and looked
having jerked out these last words as soldiers do and waved his arms
having lost a single man. the second squadron that had been in the front
having read thus far, princess mary sighed and glanced into the mirror
having ridden ahead, had pulled up his horse near the bridge, with a
having ridden beyond the village, continually meeting and overtaking
having ridden round the whole line from right flank to left, prince
having said this she went up to the doctor.
having something to eat. they hastily turned round to him asking if he
having stuck an amber mouthpiece far into his mouth, was inhaling the
having thanked anna pávlovna for her charming soiree, the guests began
having turned with words of comfort to her companion, realized that
head.
head and an army of fifteen thousand men has been ordered to blow up
head and lips indicating very little hope for the patient.
head, but the instant he turned to prince andrew the firm, intelligent
he added as if speaking to himself.
he added: “i need good officers myself, need them myself!”
headlong to the horse. “walk him up and down, my dear fellow,” he
head sadly, pointing them out to the austrian general with an expression
health?”
“health and happiness to her whose name day we are keeping and to her
“health to your ex... len... len... lency!” and again all became
“he always was rather harsh; and now i should think he’s getting
heard, and much farther to the right beyond the dragoons, the officer of
heard on every side.
heard respectfully congratulating the dying man on having received the
heard that the war was being discussed had turned from his partner with
hearing how ill he is.”
hearing that they wished to see the count, said his excellency was worse
heart. “it has begun! here it is, dreadful but enjoyable!” was what
heartrending scene.... it was a convoy of conscripts enrolled from our
heart! you are a madame de genlis and nothing more” (this nickname,
he, as if bragging of having been frightened.
he asked, “whose company?” but he really meant, “are you
“heaven only knows, my dear! these rich grandees are so selfish.
“heaven only knows what the people here may imagine,” muttered
“heavens! what a virulent attack!” replied the prince, not in the
heavy convoys (whose movements were concealed from the french) advance
he bowed his head and scraped first with one foot and then with the
he called the cossack with his horse, told him to put away the knapsack
he caught a momentary glimpse between their heads and backs of the dying
he cautiously released the shoulder she leaned on, looked into her face,
“he chose his friends badly,” interposed anna mikháylovna.
he closed his eyes, and immediately a sound of cannonading, of musketry
he commanded was in an almost hopeless position. the spy reported that
“he could not do that. the people only gave him power that he might
he could not finish, and ran out of the room.
he could not stop short for the sake of one man’s life.”
he did not finish his sentence, but his tone showed how highly he
he did not finish. just then there was a whistle in the air; nearer and
“he did not shut me up, he said i was telling an untruth.”
he disarmed his hearers.
he dressed for dinner. the old prince always dressed in old-fashioned
he drew up his chair, and continued to explain.
he embraced her. she screamed and fell unconscious on his shoulder.
he feels sure he will distinguish himself. he was glancing at everyone
he glanced at his cousin and the young lady visitor; and they were both
he glanced round at her. she gave him a passionately angry glance, and
he had already promised prince anatole to come to his gathering;
“he had another stroke about half an hour ago. courage, my
he had been beside the gun, he had heard the voices of the officers
he had but recently left their regiment, rode up to the colonel.
he had just remembered his recent encounter with the doctor’s wife and
he had met that evening.
he had not finished the last verse before the young people began to
he had ready in his mind, of all he knew and had seen. but the emperor
he had the hofs-kriegs-wurst-schnapps-rath on his hands. it would have
“he has made wills enough!” quietly remarked the princess. “but he
“he has weported himself sick, he’s to be stwuck off the list
height on which the kiev regiment was stationed, in the hollow where the
height without the smallest effort, his ease contrasting with the heavy
he immediately dispatched adjutant general wintzingerode, who was in
he indicated a place beside him to his daughter-in-law. a footman moved
“he is a great tactician!” said the prince to his son, pointing to
he is an aide-de-camp of kutúzov’s and will be here tonight.”
he is better acquainted than anyone else, does not listen to others but
he is bóry’s godfather—and allow him something for his maintenance,
“he is dozing,” said anna mikháylovna, observing that one of the
“he is just the same as ever,” replied anna mikháylovna,
“he is leaving me here, god knows why, when he might have had
“he is no more....”
he is so frank and has so much heart. he is so pure and poetic that
he is uncle’s aide-de-camp, a most brilliant position. he is so
“he is very much altered now,” said anna mikháylovna. “well, as
he kept nodding to show that he understood, anatole went on translating
he laughed in his usual dry, cold, unpleasant way, with his lips only
held out his cheek.
he leaned his elbows on the table with his pen in his hand and,
“he lets one win the singles and collahs it as soon as one doubles it;
he looked straight at prince andrew and suddenly unwrinkled his
he looked with disdain at the endless confused mass of detachments,
helplessly and he made a fruitless effort to pull it forward. whether he
he met nesvítski, with whom he shared a room, and the wag zherkóv;
he must retreat as quickly as possible behind the hollow in the rear,
he never could appreciate it. no, mon cousin,” she added with a sigh,
he noticed everything...”
he only gave an order to cease firing and re-form, so as to give room
     he ought to be firing at the enemy.
he patted her on the shoulder and himself closed the door after her.
he pointed to the french guns, the limbers of which were being detached
he pointed with a smile to a turreted nunnery, and his eyes narrowed and
he pulled off the quilt and shook it. the purse was not there.
he put on the air of one who finds it impossible to reply to such
her.
her.
he raised both arms as if carefully lifting some invisible but precious
her badge as maid of honor. the youthful little princess bolkónskaya,
her brother shook his head incredulously.
here? don’t you see the skirmishers are retreating? lead the squadron
here!” exclaimed different voices; and the heavy breathing of the
“here, in that house,” answered the adjutant.
here, is he not? please announce me.”
here is one from his highness the archduke ferdinand and here are
“here is our dear orthodox russian army,” thought bolkónski,
“here is some sort of key to the mysteries that your héloïse has
(he remembered that in french there is some peculiar way of addressing a
he repeated, accentuating the u: “i think, however, now that he lays
here prince hippolyte paused, evidently collecting his ideas with
here prince hippolyte spluttered and burst out laughing long before his
here’s another admirer of that powder-monkey emperor of yours,” he
“here’s something for you to report,” said zherkóv. “see if i
here the conversation seemed interesting and he stood waiting for an
here. where is it?” he asked, turning to lavrúshka.
her eyes, and then quickly went to his place and sat down. “sit down,
her face became sad.
her face suddenly flushed with reckless and joyous resolution. she half
“her father is very rich and stingy. he lives in the country. he is
her father was tidy. she put down the geometry book and eagerly broke
her foot—which everyone appreciated in view of her size and habitual
her forehead. his fine eyes lit up with a thoughtful, kindly, and
her friend, the princess’ eyes—large, deep and luminous (it seemed
her guests, first the vicomte and then the abbé, as peculiarly choice
her handsome eldest daughter were in the drawing room with the visitors
her head and continued in a whisper: “has he performed his final duty,
her head toward the darkness of the open doorway.
her husband looked at her as if surprised to notice that someone besides
her lip descended. she brought her face close to her sister-in-law’s
her long hair came down....” here he could contain himself no
her mother and burst into such a loud, ringing fit of laughter that even
her neck.
heroism!”
hero less on earth.”
her over his spectacles.
her own on the subject.
her path.
her plainly as she is, or else you will make a cruel and irrevocable
“herself,” came the answer in a rough voice, and márya dmítrievna
herself disinterestedly at the head of an alliance having for its object
herself in here for? but i will give her a piece of my mind. the time
herself should she glance round. anna mikháylovna, with a meek,
herself wish to die, that his end was not only touching but edifying. as
her sister dropped the portfolio. anna mikháylovna, stooping, quickly
her sister-in-law’s room. prince andrew in a traveling coat without
her sleeves and puffing heavily.
her temples. princess mary, supporting her sister-in-law, still looked
her tenderly and attentively, said severely:
her thin lips grew white, though her eyes did not change, and her voice
her tone was now querulous and her lip drawn up, giving her not a
her up, hugged her, and, smiling through her tears, began comforting
her. why do you say all this to me?”
her with a grimace that distorted his handsome face, kissed anna
her work as if to testify that the interest and fascination of the story
her. “you know, catiche, that we—you three sisters, mámontov, and
he sad at leaving his wife?—perhaps both, but evidently he did not
he said.
he said no more, but expressed his resignation to cruel fate by a
“he’s a low fellow, say what you will,” remarked prince hippolyte.
he sat down beside hippolyte and wrinkling his forehead began talking
he sat down by his wife, his elbows on his knees and his hands ruffling
he sat under fire. but despite himself, on his face too that same
he scattered the burning tobacco, smashed the pipe, and threw it away.
“he’s coming!” shouted the signaler at that moment.
he seemed to swell with satisfaction. he had hardly finished speaking
he seized his son by the hand with small bony fingers, shook it, looked
he sent for pierre and said to him: “my dear fellow, if you are going
“he shouldn’t have taken so many men,” said the officer of the
he shrugged his shoulders. a footman conducted borís down one flight of
he shrugged his shoulders and spread out his hands. pierre wished to
he sighed.
he signed with a flourish and suddenly turning to his son began to
he spoke so rapidly that he did not finish half his words, but his son
he spoke with such self-confidence that his hearers could not be sure
he stretched out his hand to take hold of the purse. rostóv let go of
he suddenly blushed crimson, and it was plain that he had made a great
he suddenly cried. “even without a bet, there! tell them to bring me a
he talked to pierre), the old man was sitting on a large leather-covered
he (though pierre had not mentioned bonaparte), “but bonaparte when
he threw the bottle to the englishman, who caught it neatly. dólokhov
he told her she was still the same crybaby as ever. princess mary had
he took the dispatch which was addressed to him and began to read it
he took the lighted pipe that was offered to him, gripped it in his
he turned away.
he turned round. nesvítski’s handsome face looked out of the little
he turned to kozlóvski with urgent questions.
he understood his commander’s wish.
he vouchsafe its revelation to us through his divine spirit.
he waited a moment to see whether the cornet would answer, but he turned
“he wants to see a battle,” said zherkóv to bolkónski, pointing
he was afraid of finding in her a rival for count bezúkhov’s fortune,
he was asleep in his corner and woke him up. rousing himself, pierre
he was touched, but also a gleam of irony on his face.
he went on talking in this way in french, uttering only those words in
“he will get up in twenty minutes. let us go across to mary’s
he woke up...
he wore the air of a man little concerned in what the two ladies were
he worked went step by step toward his goal. he was free, he had nothing
he would give an opinion at the war council which would be the only one
he would have to march with no road into unknown parts of the bohemian
“hey, cossack, my horse!” he said. “now, then, you there! get out
hid her face still deeper in the bed. natásha wept, sitting on the
high, but the last round fell in the midst of a group of hussars and
highest degree just the very qualities pierre lacked, and which might
highest point. “it’s in charge of the queer fellow we saw without
highest spheres.
“highly satisfied, your excellency!”
high time!”
hill.
hill one after the other. their colonel, karl bogdánich schubert, came
hill opposite, with the french moving about on it, opened out before
him!”
him.
him.
him.”
him and everything he could say had long been known to him, that he was
him and, with a christian mildness that expressed forgiveness of his
him and would not have others do so.”
him as a man, but what can one do?”
him a taper. he lit it and, distracted by observing those around him,
him be here....”
him, bonaparte had made in his campaigns and even in politics. his
him but to the whole regiment—all of us—you’re to blame all round.
him by the arm, “i believe that intervention will be stronger than
him die feeling that he is rendering unhappy those who...”
him everyone began to stir: steps were audible and whispers, among which
him except the young princesses.... they are still young....” she bent
him, from his daughter to his serfs, the prince was sharp and invariably
him, from his weary, bored expression to his quiet, measured step,
him, handing him different articles of clothing. “what of sweden? how
him, he’s a scoundrel. go on! go on!”
him. he stroked her hair and then patted her awkwardly on the back of
him. “more, please: more! what’s he saying?”
him not in the least abashed.
him... olga, go and see whether uncle’s beef tea is ready—it is
him or her to a little old lady, wearing large bows of ribbon in her
him. “remember this, prince andrew, if they kill you it will hurt me,
himself, but only desires the good of mankind. and what have they
himself fall into a trap moreau set him, and from which he did not know
himself into a chair, gazing at those in the room as if asking, “why
himself on a sofa with his face to the wall. pierre hid his face, from
himself on his seat.
himself, prince bagratión sent zherkóv to tell the general in command
himself to bagratión. bonaparte’s adjutant had not yet reached
himself undertook his daughter’s education, and to develop these two
himself up, slightly arching his back. it was plain that the commander
himself up to such an extent that it seemed he could not have sustained
him. that’s a thing i hate! everything is possible.”
him that there would probably be an engagement that day or the next, and
him, though, between you and me, he always seemed to me a poor sort
him to come up; prince bagratión reined in his horse and recognizing
him to despatch part of the army abroad and to create a new condition
him to go back as it was too dangerous to remain where they were.
him. “what is this? they’re like sheep! just like sheep! out of the
hippolyte, and began looking through a lorgnette at his elevated legs.
hippolyte burst out laughing.
hippolyte gazing round with importance at the others, “without
hippolyte in the carriage, “your little princess is very nice, very
hippolyte is at least a quiet fool, but anatole is an active one. that
hippolyte “—so dull—. it has been a delightful evening, has it
hippolyte spluttered again, and amid his laughter said, “and you were
his arm.
his arm, began a long-drawn-out soldiers’ song, commencing with the
his boots. you can see everything from there; let’s go there,
his breast and a serene expression on his flat face. he spoke in that
his captain.
his career. moreover, he could see by her manners that she was one of
“his children are all illegitimate. i think pierre also is
his companion. the latter, a fresh, rosy officer of the guards,
his daughter, princess hélène, passed between the chairs, lightly
his door, which creaked slightly when opened.
his excitement. “don’t you understand that either we are officers
his eyes and thought he would never open them again. suddenly he was
his eyes seemed larger than usual when he glanced round and noticed
his face, began to talk—as one who has long had something on his mind
his face suddenly softened and tears came into his eyes. with his left
his father dismissed the abbé and said to the young man, “now go
his father’s part of the house. entering the drawing room, where the
his father who had brought it from the siege of ochákov. all these
his fieldglass. a little behind them nesvítski, who had been sent to
his glittering black eyes at rostóv.
his grave, even rather gloomy, look was instantaneously replaced by
his gray hair.
his hand over the thin grizzled strands of hair combed back across his
his hand prince andrew came up to his comrade, the aide-de-camp on duty,
his handsome face. natásha, very still, peered out from her ambush,
his head.
his highness the archduke ferdinand has honored me, i imagine that the
his horse keep pace with the company.
his horse with a convoy officer’s saddle.
his horse. zherkóv and the staff officer bent over their saddles and
his imaginary sword, but smiling at the remembrance of that pleasant,
his impulsive nature, does get into mischief (a boy can’t help it), he
his instinct urged him on. before the officer finished his sentence
his in the diplomatic service.
his kindly, simple, and modest expression. anna pávlovna turned toward
his legs. pressing against both sides of the window, he adjusted himself
his life. he walked about in front of the line and at every step pulled
his majesty; but we think the present delay is depriving the splendid
his majesty the emperor derogates from the principle of our alliance...
his mind that they would be friends.
his mouth awry, prepared to shout. the regiment fluttered like a bird
his mouth very clearly revealed something unexpectedly coarse and
his muscular legs as if sailing along, stretching himself to his full
his musket walked away.
his neighbors’ glasses, not neglecting his own. the countess in turn,
his noble soul peacefully to leave this...”
his nose.
his own helplessness. at sight of this smile pierre felt an unexpected
his own house. the minister of war came up and congratulated him on the
his plate round and moving his wineglasses about with as much decision
his pocketbook.
his portrait, “definitely demanded that he should be called.”
his private room and, calling his adjutant, asked for some papers
his reputation fighting them.”
his riding whip.
his rising. “this unfortunate fete at the ambassador’s deprives me
his room.
his rooms upstairs.
his routine, retired as usual after dinner. the little princess was in
his scanty gray hairs over his bald patch, also asked them to dinner.
his shoulders.
his shoulders. “women, my dear fellow; women!”
his skill?” he concluded.
his son only smiled.
his study and showed them his choice collection of turkish pipes. from
his suite, with their cossacks who were talking loudly together, prince
his temple, where an ismail bullet had pierced his skull, and the empty
his thin, worn, sallow face was covered with deep wrinkles, which always
historical accounts of battles, involuntarily pictured to himself the
his utmost to look as small as possible. he looked at the count, who
his weak figure. “number two!” he squeaked. “fire, medvédev!”
his wont, as if intentionally contrasting the briskness of his manners
his youngest boy, had all settled down in the drawing room and were
hitherto puckered brow became smooth as a sign of pleasure, and with a
hitting men and that afterwards someone had shouted “cavalry!” and
“hm... hm...” muttered the old prince to himself, finishing what he
“hm.... if you wish to kill him, to kill him outright, you can see
“ho! ho! ho! ha! ha! ha! ha! ouh! ouh!” came peals of such healthy
“ho, ho!” said the old man, casting his eyes on her rounded figure.
holding high her fifty-year-old head with its gray curls, she stood
holding the bottle was lifted higher and higher and trembled with the
holding up his saber, his spurs jingling, he ran up the steps of the
holding up the folds of her dress, and the smile shone still more
hollow and were firing at our men. prince bagratión bowed his head as a
hommes massacrés et l’armée de nos alliés détruite, et vous
honorable, and brave, but if he robs his fellows there is no honor in
hoofs, and apparently ready to jump over the railings had his rider let
“h-o-o-w are you standing? where’s your leg? your leg?” shouted
hope you will change your opinions, my dear monsieur pierre.”
horror and fear. all were still. pierre took his hands from his eyes.
horror-struck. but when she saw that pierre’s sacrilegious words
     * hors d’oeuvres.
horse for which he had paid seven hundred rubbles was not worth half
horse, rode up to the porch, swung his leg over the saddle with a supple
horses near the window, prince andrew felt that something important and
horse still struggled.
horse—that i’ll warrant,” said shinshín, patting him on the
horse you’ll thank me for.”
hospitals could no longer accommodate all the sick and wounded, yet the
hostess look toward the door, and now and then glance at one another,
hostilities are ended, we can shake one another’s hand.... the
hour alone with the dying man, passed out, slightly acknowledging their
hour. suddenly the broad muscles and lines of the count’s face began
house and now managed all his affairs, stepped softly into the room.
house for your wife is ready. princess mary will take her there and
household. and there in fact was sónya lying face downward on nurse’s
house. though he expected that the story of his escapade would be
house was brilliant with lights shining through its lofty windows. the
house with prince bagratión and weyrother. weyrother was the austrian
house, you know, and danced with the children. be sure to invite him, my
“how about my son borís, prince?” said she, hurrying after him into
“how am i?” dólokhov answered coldly. “i am as you see.”
how bright and glorious was the setting sun! with what soft glitter the
“how can he talk like that?” thought pierre. he considered his
“how do you do, cousin?” said pierre. “you don’t recognize
“how do you do, my dear? i wish you many happy returns of your name
“how do you expect him to answer you all at once?” said prince
how do you judge of it?” he added, addressing nicholas, who when he
however, for he will leave us again to take part in this unhappy war
“however, there will hardly be an engagement today,” said bagratión
“how funny you are!” he said, bending down to her and blushing still
“how handsome the old man still was only a year ago!” remarked the
“how is it,” she began, as usual in french, settling down briskly
“how is the count? can i see him?” asked pierre, awkwardly as usual,
“how lovely!” said everyone who saw her; and the vicomte lifted his
“how many miles?”
how much anxiety one has had to go through that we might rejoice in
“how often have i asked you not to take my things?” she said. “you
“how plainly all these young people wear their hearts on their
“how’s it you’re not drunk today?” said nesvítski when the
“how’s this, colonel?” he shouted as he approached. “i told you
how stupid you men all are not to have married her! excuse me for saying
     how sweet, as fancies wander free,
“how thoroughly like him that is!” he said to princess mary, who had
how to arrange it. what do you think?”
how to escape?”
how we went to the sparrow hills with madame jacquot?... it’s such an
how you look at things! send two men? and who then would give us the
humiliation of arrogant austria and that in a week’s time he might,
hum with voices. on all sides soldiers were running to and fro, throwing
hungarian?” said the commander with an austere gibe.
hungry, exhausted men would have to detain for days the whole enemy army
hungry, ill-shod soldiers, and losing a third of his men as stragglers
     hurrah for emperor alexander!”
hurriedly unclasped his hands, stopped at a table as if tying the
hurriedly up to the unknown general and blocking his way to the door.
hurried off to his company, buttoning up his coat as he ran.
hurrying past them.
husband.
husband. prince andrew’s eyes were closed, so weary and sleepy did he
hussar and began lifting him.
hussar, “and why are you exciting yourself? do you think the french
hussar cornet zherkóv had at one time, in petersburg, belonged to
hussars began carefully aligning their horses. silence fell on the whole
hussars, but still with that naïve air that made it impossible to know
hussars, cossacks, and adjutants, in his camlet coat, as he jolted on
hussars hastily dismounted, not knowing what they were to do. the men
“i...”
“i also wanted to ask you,” continued prince andrew, “if i’m
i always stick to mother truth. it’s not right!”
i am afraid of him.”
“i am afraid of mixing the figures,” pierre replied; “but if you
“i am awaiting orders to join my new regiment, your excellency,”
i am dissatisfied with your younger son? between ourselves” (and her
“i am expecting you, pierre,” said the same voice, but gently and
“i am fond of you, especially as you are the one live man among our
“i am glad i have spoken out fully. perhaps you did not like it? you
“i am glad i was able to do you a service, my dear anna
“i am going away.”
“i am living at countess rostóva’s,” replied borís, again
“i am not jesting,” bilíbin went on. “nothing is truer or sadder.
“i am not jesting with you; please be silent!” cried bolkónski,
“i am not speaking of regicide, i am speaking about ideas.”
“i am not your ‘dear sir,’ mr. staff officer, and you did not tell
“i am ordered to write a memorandum explaining why we are not
“i am quite of your opinion,” replied nicholas, flaming up, turning
“i am so enchanted by the brilliancy of the wit and culture of the
i am sorry for that,” he went on.
“i am so sorry for the poor count,” said the visitor. “he is in
“i am speaking sincerely as a friend! consider! where and why are
“i am speaking ze truce,” replied the hussar with a smile.
i am to do; i wanted to consult you seriously.”
i am told.”
“i am very glad i did not go to the ambassador’s,” said prince
“i am very sorry, ma’am,” answered the maid.
“i am very, very grateful to you, mon cher,” or “ma chère”—he
“i am your faithful slave and to you alone i can confess that my
“i bet a hundred on stevens!” shouted one.
“i bet fifty imperials”—he spoke french that the englishman might
“i bet on dólokhov!” cried a third. “kurágin, you part our
i cannot agree with you about pierre, whom i knew as a child. he always
“i cannot argue about it,” replied prince andrew coldly, but he
i cannot find words to express to you my displeasure. you command only
“i cannot inform your majesty at what o’clock the battle began at
i can’t...”
“i can’t bear the sight of that woman.”
“i can tell you more,” continued prince vasíli, seizing her hand,
“i can’t help it,” said the prince. “lavater would have said i
“i can’t. i’ve sworn not to. i won’t drink and won’t play till
“i can’t make out at all,” said nesvítski.
i can’t,” replied bolkónski, smiling.
“ice pudding, but you won’t get any,” said márya dmítrievna.
“i come from the archduchess’. i heard nothing there.”
“i confess i do not understand: perhaps there are diplomatic
i confess i understand very little about all these matters of wills and
i consider it my duty to let you know of it. he is said to be very
i could not have done it myself, i should not have had the courage, but
“i did not expect this of you,” said the staff captain seriously and
“i did not... what is it all about?” inquired prince andrew
idiot!... but what’s the good?...” and he waved his arm.
idlers have failed to beat the germans. since the world began everybody
“i’d like to put you on a two days’ march with a knapsack! your
“i do not think i have complained of my wife to you, másha, or blamed
“i don’t at all say that all the plans are good,” said prince
“i don’t even know what is in this paper,” said the younger of
“i don’t know, general....”
“i don’t like your mademoiselle bourienne at all,” said prince
“i don’t like you to talk like that.”
“i don’t myself know ‘to who,’” replied the cornet in a
“i don’t say it’s a plan i approve of,” said the son; “i am
i don’t speak of anatole, your youngest. i don’t like him,” she
“i don’t understand it,” replied prince andrew. “women who are
“i don’t understand, mamma—what is his attitude to pierre?”
“i don’t understand!” said prince andrew.
“i don’t understand. what’s it all about?”
i don’t want to have you like our silly ladies. get used to it and
if all the powers of his soul were concentrated on passing the commander
“if anyone comes meddling again,” said he, emitting the words
if a soldier, he should be dressed in regulation uniform like the
“if at least we had some women here; but there’s nothing foh one
“if buonaparte remains on the throne of france a year longer,” the
if but one stage nearer znaim. the offer of a truce gave the only, and
“if he” (he meant the enemy) “begins popping at the bridge now,”
if he intended to say something, but immediately, with affected
“if he is better, ask pierre to dine with us. he has been to the
“if he is one of the ordinary little staff dandies sent to earn a
if, however, the emperor of russia ratifies that convention, i will
if in search of something. on his way to the aunt he bowed to the little
“if it does not weigh a hundredweight and won’t break my neck...
if it is to last. prince vasíli knew this, and having once realized
“if it were not for my sincere affection and devotion to uncle,”
“if it were true that he has been beaten, news would have come.”
“if i were tsar i would never go to war,” said nesvítski, turning
“if no one fought except on his own conviction, there would be no
if not it is merely a question of settling where the preliminaries of
“if only i knew that anything besides humiliation would come of
if the whole world had gone crazy.”
“if they had known that you wished it, the entertainment would have
if to say that this was no more than she had expected.
“if we get to vienna i’ll get rid of it there but in these wretched
“if we live we shall see,” replied bilíbin, his face again becoming
“if you had told me sooner, mamma, i would have gone,” she replied
“if you have nothing better to do, count (or prince), and if the
“if you, sir, choose to make a buffoon of yourself,” he said
if you still try to defend the infamies and horrors perpetrated by that
i get reinstated.”
“i have.”
“i have already told you, papa,” said his son, “that if you
“i have come with my mother to see the count, but it seems he is not
“i have four sons in the army but still i don’t fret. it is all
i have had a letter from my brother, who announces his speedy arrival
“i haven’t been in the room. it must be where you put it.”
“i have said nothing to you, but you have already been talked to. and
“i have seen as much before now, mate!”
“i have the honor to congratulate you. general mack has arrived, quite
“i have the honor to present myself,” repeated prince andrew rather
i have written that he should make use of you in proper places and not
“i hear you have given orders to harness,” she cried, panting (she
“i hope this will prove the last drop that will make the glass run
“i knew someone who received that sacrament seven times.”
“i knew the princess at once,” put in mademoiselle bourienne.
“i knew you would be here,” replied pierre. “i will come to supper
“i know, i know,” answered prince vasíli in his monotonous voice.
“i know,” interrupted bilíbin, “you’re thinking it’s very
“i know it and shall prove it,” said rostóv.
“i know, my dear, kind princess,” said anna mikháylovna, seizing
“i know that no one can help if nature does not do her work,” said
“i know the will was made, but i also know that it is invalid;
“i know who has taken it,” repeated rostóv in an unsteady voice,
“i know your heart,” repeated the prince. “i value your friendship
“i’ll drink it! let’s have a bottle of rum!” shouted pierre,
illegitimate.”
i’ll find you another place.”
“i’ll flatten you into a pancake!” shouted the angry officer to
i’ll flog you all.”
ill! i was only there a few moments and hardly said a word...”
“i’ll let two more letters pass, but the third i’ll read,” said
ill luck takes us. they say we are going to olmütz, and olmütz is a
“illness or not, he’d better not cwoss my path. i’d kill him!”
illness. prince vasíli said something to lorrain in passing and went
“i’ll really call in on the nuns,” he said to the officers who
“i’ll show you, i’ll show you! it’s not a secret. and it’s a
ill-suited to the family circle of which pierre was almost a member.
imagined only important possibilities: “if the enemy attacks the right
imagine that their children have no secrets from them. “i know i shall
“i’m glad,” answered dólokhov briefly and clearly, as the song
“i’m glad, glad, to see you,” he said, looking attentively into
immediately.”
immediately brightened on seeing rostóv. “schön gut morgen! schön
immediately broke off. the door of the private room opened and kutúzov
“immediately, prince,” said kozlóvski. “dispositions for
immense force upon kutúzov’s line of communication with the troops
immobile for a few moments. then wrinkles ran over his face like a wave
“i’m not to blame that the conversation began in the presence of
impassive face of oriental type, came out after the commander in chief.
impassive face?” prince andrew asked himself as he looked. prince
impatience, while the princess jumped up and with a gesture of
impatiently.
impatiently, “i came here not to wrangle with you, but to talk about
imperials ... or do you wish to make it a hundred?” added he,
importance of the rite now being performed and even approved of it. he
important post in vienna. both the foreign minister and our ambassador
important. what is important are the rights of man, emancipation from
impossible...”
“impossible!” cried prince andrew. “that would be too base.”
impossible not to notice his face. dólokhov was a man of small means
impossible to stop him, she rallied her forces and joined the vicomte in
impression. “but that is a matter of perfect indifference to me,” he
impression his news of a victory would create, or recalling the send-off
impressions of the recent battle, picturing pleasantly to himself the
impressively, blocking the way to the bedroom and preventing the other
improvement. his satire has been less bitter of late, and there was a
“i’m quite worn out by these callers. however, i’ll see her and
“i must have that purse, i tell you,” shouted denísov, shaking his
i myself have experienced ... and so ... because ... no, excuse me!
inability to enter a room and converse in it was, however, redeemed by
in accord with his intentions. prince andrew noticed, however, that
inactive and has left the university to join the army. i will confess to
inactive, would also soon have to meet the enemy.
in amazement.
“in a minute, in a minute,” he said, dipping his pen.
“in a moment. À propos,” she added, becoming calm again, “i am
in a moment the men came running gaily from their campfires and began
“in an hour’s time, i should say.”
inappropriate, she was unable to stop him.
in a tone only used by persons who are certain that those they call will
in attaching himself as an orderly officer to prince bagratión. he now
inaudible, voice.
“in a word, a hearty one...” said the subaltern, laughing (the
in bonaparte’s address to his army at the beginning of the campaign,
in brünn everybody attached to the court was packing up, and the heavy
incessantly, repeating petersburg reminiscences and even phrases. prince
in chief, and from the noisy laughter of the cossacks holding the
in chief would be. though the aide-de-camp did not know these
in clean notes, was lying ready under a handkerchief on the countess’
indication of something new and stern showed round the mouth.
indifference, began to hum to himself, producing a queer sound which
indifferent hands of the minister of war and the polite adjutant. the
indifferently to his wife’s chatter with prince hippolyte who had also
indiscretion, nodded and said: “i hope to see you again, but i also
indistinct words, shrugging his shoulders and gesticulating.
“i never could understand how nataly made up her mind to marry that
inevitably have to learn what lies the other side of death. but you are
in exactly the same manner. nesvítski laughed and nudged the others to
infamous, vile woman!”
inflammable material on the bridge must be reinspected.”
influence in society, however, is a capital which has to be economized
informed him of a victory and stated strategically the position of the
“inform the prince that i the bridge fired!” said the colonel
in french out of all this, showing all the news we have had of the
in front of them rows of gray cloaks were already visible through the
“in general we must turn this bloodthirsty soldier to more humane
in geometry were among the greatest delights of her life.
in god’s hands. you may die in your bed or god may spare you in a
ingratiating and appealing smile, and took his hand that he might not go
inhabitants on whom they were quartered. braunau was the headquarters of
in half an hour all was again in order, only the squares had become gray
inheritance; but i do know that since this young man, whom we all used
in his horse, said to him:
in his movements, in his walk, scarcely a trace was left of his former
in his saddle.
in his tone, “my dear,” whether they were above or below him in
in his voice a sincerity and weakness pierre had never observed in it
in his writing table, and this is a paper he has forgotten....”
in.’ i do not know how far he was justified in saying so.”
injuries—and that men attribute the greatest merit to skill in killing
in killed, wounded, sick, and stragglers; though a number of sick and
in lace-frilled drawers, and feet in low slippers—was just at that
inner laboratory of his mind in a portable form as if intentionally, so
innocent and untried?”
in no way binding) might give time for part of the transport to pass,
in october, 1805, a russian army was occupying the villages and towns of
in one company dinner was ready, and the soldiers were gazing eagerly
in only his stockings, rose when they entered, smiling not altogether
in passing prince vasíli seized pierre’s hand and said to anna
in perplexity, and only later grasped that a stroke was an attack of
in petersburg and that a copy, which he had himself seen, had that day
in princess drubetskáya’s case he felt, after her second appeal,
inquiringly at the young prince, wondering what would follow.
inquiry. the son noticed that an expression of profound sorrow suddenly
in retirement and had now no influence in political affairs, every high
in separate piles, began counting them.
in society it seems as if there were something in them, but there’s
insolent intelligence of his eyes, produced an effect which made it
insoluble.
in some way essential.
in spite of repeated demands boots had not been issued by the austrian
in spite of the animation of his speech, bilíbin did not forget to
instantly dropped them again. all the blood which had seemed congested
instead of black. the regimental commander walked with his jerky steps
in step, and each one of these hundreds of soldiers seemed to be
instrument he could not begin to speak.
intellectual pride,” said the princess, following the train of her own
intelligent, and resolute young man.
intelligent, how is it you don’t see that if the count has written a
intemperance, and his mouth twitched nervously. the general looked the
intending to rest if but for a moment, eat something, and try to sort
intends to expose his precious person to the chances of war. god grant
intention should he try to direct his whole force against our faithful
intercourse with young women.
interested the minister of war less than any of the other matters he was
interesting.”
interesting but hardly feasible.”
interests,” said bilíbin.
interfere, making a scene on the very threshold of a dying man’s room?
interrupting one another and mingling with the rustling of dresses and
in the afternoon, having made all his calls, he was returning to
in the baggage train he had passed that morning on the znaim road seven
in the best possible manner, and feeling that he was doing it well he
in the country.”
in the count’s room, which was full of tobacco smoke, they talked
in the dining room, which like all the rooms in the house was
in the drawing room the conversation was still going on.
in the drawing room, waiting for borís to come out. she was already
in the garden, or superintending the building that was always going on
in the house was done in haste at that time), and pierre and anna
in the light of the dull autumn evening, mounted men coming toward him.
in the meadow behind the village, three of them are dragging something.
in the midst of a conversation on political matters anna pávlovna burst
in the midst of the third écossaise there was a clatter of chairs being
in the military profession, so to an even greater extent bilíbin gave
in the morning anna mikháylovna said to pierre:
in the passage denísov, with a pipe, was squatting on the threshold
in the same order in which they had entered but with redder faces, the
in the same tone.
in the same tone.
in the second room of the inn the lieutenant was sitting over a dish of
in the small circular room. around the table all who were at count
in the sutler’s hut without his boots.” he recognized the agreeable,
in the viennese drawing rooms and often had an influence on matters
in this part of the house and did not even know of the existence of
in this room it was almost dark; only two tiny lamps were burning before
into a careless, merry smile. “what am i? an illegitimate son!”
“into action! into action! bring him a bottle for such news! but how
into borís’ eyes. after he had gone pierre continued pacing up and
into her radiant smile.
in too”—different voices were saying in the crowd, as the men looked
into step with a hop, looked back angrily, and through the ominous
into the distance, at the waters of the danube, at the sky, and at the
in to the minister of war. five minutes later he returned and bowing
into the naïvely symmetrical pose of an egyptian statue, evidently
into which we have been drawn, god knows how or why. not only where you
intriguer!” she hissed viciously, and tugged with all her might at the
invalid chair, a wax taper in his left hand, was leaning his left arm on
invalid,” said anna pávlovna, exchanging an alarmed glance with her
in vienna knew him and valued him. he was not one of those many
invincibility of the french, and the minister of war does not even care
invitation to anna pávlovna’s reception and had sat listening to
involuntarily came closer to him.
involuntarily, so much so that the only thing left to do seemed to be
in which kutúzov entrusted them to the humanity of the enemy; and
“i often think,” she continued after a short pause, drawing nearer
“i often think, though, perhaps it’s a sin,” said the princess,
“i recognize you only too well, too well.”
“i rely on you, my dear,” said anna pávlovna, also in a low tone.
“i request you to have the goodness to change your coat,” he said as
ironical voice.
irrepressible hatred.
irreproachably washed, brushed, and buttoned, held his pipe in the
irritation.
is all i have to say to you. the count is very, very ill, and you must
is a mob of scoundrels and not an army,” he was thinking as he went
is an admirable book which calms and elevates the soul. adieu! give
“i saw you riding this morning...” he added.
“i say, come round some evening and we’ll have a game of faro!”
“i say, fédeshon!... did he say when the battles are to begin? you
“i say so,” he continued desperately, “because the bourbons fled
“i say, this is folly! he’ll be killed,” said this more sensible
is betraying us! russia alone must save europe. our gracious sovereign
is connected with the montmorencys through the rohans, one of the best
is going as a cadet. there’s no one to interest himself for him. to
“i shall always remember that in this world one must expect no reward,
“i shall at any rate not run after a young man before visitors...”
“i shall be delighted to meet them,” said the prince. “but
i shall be in a more prominent position,” continued berg, “and
i shall be very charmed to see you tonight between 7 and 10—annette
“i shall probably die before you. so remember, these are my memoirs;
“i shall scarcely be able to avail myself of your hospitality,
“i should like,” said the vicomte, “to ask how monsieur explains
“i should like to go to kurágin’s,” thought he.
“i should like to speak well of them, but as far as i know the facts,
“i should think he has a score of them.”
“i should think not,” said véra, “because there can never be
“‘i showed them the path to glory, but they did not follow
is how i explain it to myself. it can’t be helped!”
“is it certain?” she said.
“is it possible?” exclaimed anna mikháylovna. “oh, how awful!
“is it true that austrians have been beaten?” asked dólokhov.
“is it worth while noticing trifles?” he reined in his horse with
is my witness,” and she made the sign of the cross, “i love her so
is not so, then...”
is now rushing along the road to brünn and will be here in a day or
“isn’t she too young? i have heard that it harms the voice to train
is pua’ as on the fihst day of cweation... who’s that now? send him
is so i don’t know...”
“is that mary practicing? let’s go quietly and take her by
“is the englishman bragging?... eh? is it all right?” said anatole.
is the only difference between them.” he said this smiling in a way
“is there sufficient forage in krems?”
“is this the way to the princesses’ apartments?” asked anna
“i still can’t understand what you are afraid of,” said prince
is to take care of yourself. leave it to those who are no longer fit for
is very unhappy with her father. she is a relation of yours, princess
it?”
italian: “‘dio mi l’ha dato. guai a chi la tocchi!’’
italian to give her lessons.”
“it all depends on the bringing up,” remarked the visitor.
it all very well for prince vasíli told me himself. besides, cyril
italy and on the rhine; how fifty thousand russians and as many english
it. and he is so clever and so good!” said natásha. “don’t
it and saw telyánin’s horse at the porch.
it...” answered her son coldly. “but i have promised and will do it
it at that age.”
it. but at that moment an adjutant galloped up with a message from the
it can’t be a square—for they are not drawn up for that.”
it can’t be helped!” said the count, shrugging his shoulders and
it, easily find a way to prepare for the enemy the fate he deserves.
i tell you buonaparte was a great tactician? here, he says the same
“i tell you,” shouted denísov, “he’s a fine fellow.”
it escape from his handsome mouth in rings. this was lieutenant berg, an
it. feel in your pockets.”
it had appeared. the count sat on the sofa between two guests who were
it had the commander in chief continued to look at him, and so kutúzov,
“it has begun. here it is!” thought prince andrew, feeling the
“i... that’s different. why speak of me? i don’t want any other
“i think,” said the prince with a smile, “that if you had been
“i thought perhaps something had happened,” she said with her
“i thought today’s fete had been canceled. i confess all these
it is a bit of mack. we are macked),” he concluded, feeling that he
“it is an illness, there’s no other way of explaining it,” said
“it is dreadful, dreadful!” she was saying, “but cost me what it
   it is for thee thus swells her heart,
“it is for the reasson, my goot sir,” said he, speaking with a
it is for you to talk or think of such matters. it is no easier for
it is. my dear pet!”
“it is now my turn to ask you ‘why?’ mon cher,” said bolkónski.
it is said ‘there are thieves among the pávlograd officers!’ but
it is terrible to think.... this is my son,” she added, indicating
“it is the buonapartists who say that,” replied the vicomte without
“it is very good of you, monsieur pierre, to come and visit a poor
“it is very strange, mon monsieur prince,” said the staff officer.
it is. you must know. we will take it at once and show it to the
“it’ll be worse for you. bogdánich is vindictive and you’ll pay
it’ll be worse if he fires the bridge. see, here’s an officer jammed
“it may be treachery,” said prince andrew, vividly imagining the
it necessary to introduce himself, and without experiencing the least
it, on the crest of the opposite hill, the village of schön grabern
it, or why it had to be told in russian, still anna pávlovna and the
it,’” prince andrew continued after a short silence, again quoting
“it’s a bad business, eh?”
“it’s a bad business,” said the general without answering him,
“it’s all about the war,” the count shouted down the table. “you
“it’s all over; but i am a coward—yes, a coward!” thought
“it’s all the fault of these fellows on the staff that there’s
“it’s all very well for you... i am not envious... i love you and
        “it’s a long, long way.
“it’s ancient history,” said another, guessing that it referred to
“it’s a shame for a soldier to steal; a soldier must be honest,
“it’s as if a dam had burst,” said the cossack hopelessly. “are
it’s as if it had been done on purpose, on purpose. besides, suppose
“it’s different on different days,” answered the captain. “one
it seemed quite natural that they should cry, and apparently it never
“it seems funny to me,” said pierre, “that you, you should
“it seems that while he was abroad this young man was allowed to do
itself?”
“it’s empty.”
its handsome, sensual mouth, and its cold, majestic expression, was
“it’s in the inlaid portfolio that he keeps under his pillow,”
its last march the day before—presented a well-ordered array of two
it’s not all the same to us! am i not right, denísov? it’s not the
“it’s not at all from friendship,” declared nicholas, flaring
“it’s not going to be a ghost story?” said he, sitting down beside
“it’s nothing, nothing; leave me alone!” sobbed sónya.
“it’s nothing,” replied prince andrew.
it’s not pleasant, but what’s to be done, my dear fellow? you landed
“it’s not there.”
“it’s not true!”
it’s splendid. i am very glad to have made your acquaintance. it’s
“it’s that protégé of yours, that sweet princess drubetskáya,
it’s too late now when vienna is occupied by the french army!”
it. telyánin took the purse and began carelessly slipping it into the
it timidly and tenderly on her son’s arm, “be affectionate and
it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included with this
it under your head like a treasure,” said rostóv. “i put it just
“it von’t go begging,” replied the german with a smile.
“it was all they could do to rescue the poor man,” continued the
it was already quite dark when prince andrew rattled over the paved
it was a warm, rainy, autumnal day. the wide expanse that opened out
it was evident that he did not like the vicomte and was aiming his
it was evident that he performed his duty as a subordinate with even
it was evident that prince andrew was not interested in such abstract
it was, in fact, solely to meet prince vasíli that she had obtained an
it was in july, 1805, and the speaker was the well-known anna pávlovna
it was just the moment before a big dinner when the assembled guests,
it was past one o’clock when pierre left his friend. it was a
it was plain that this “well?” referred to much that they both
it was pleasant and touching to see these little girls in love; but
it was st. natalia’s day and the name day of two of the rostóvs—the
it was true that a view over nearly the whole russian position and the
it won’t be your skirmishing at dürrenstein, or gunpowder at all,
“it would not be turned off the field even on the tsarítsin
it!’ ‘yes, let’s!’ say the others. and off they go and take the
ivánovich. he is in a very bad humor, very morose. be prepared.”
ivánovich (who always went into a corner to blow his nose on his
“i’ve been sent back to the regiment all on account of that devil,
“i’ve come to say good-by.”
“i’ve seen him myself!”
“i want a great deal, count! i want five hundred rubles,” and taking
“i want to know!”
“i want to teach this young man how to shoe a horse,” said
“i was attached; i’m on duty.”
“i was going to ask you. i know nothing except that it was all i could
i was saying, prince vasíli is the next heir through his wife, but the
“i was told a charming moscow story today and must treat you to it.
“i will allow no one to call me a liar!” cried rostóv. “he told
“i will do it all, father,” he said.
“i will,” replied natásha.
“i will the bridge fire,” he said in a solemn tone as if to announce
“i will, your excellency,” said timókhin, showing by his smile that
“i wished to get a nap, mon cousin, but i can’t.”
“i wonder, is it not too late to administer unction?” asked the
jabbering! fine, isn’t it? it’s all the frenchy can do to keep up
jacket.
“jacob, bring a bottle!” shouted the host, a tall, handsome fellow
jerked away his plate, which tíkhon briskly caught. “suvórov!...
jests and gossip.
jest was unacceptable and had not come off. he grew confused.
jingling sound it presented arms. then amidst a dead silence the
joined kutúzov at braunau now separated from the russian army, and
joins the allies, austria’s hand will be forced and there will be war.
joke, and purposely trying to appear stupider than he really was.
jokes, sit on the cannon, and meanwhile a french battalion gets to
jolted over the stony road. some of them were talking (he heard russian
jovial old gentleman, who standing beside his tall and stout partner,
joyful, but an animal, squirrel-like expression. she paused as if she
joy to give my franz a thaler, or let him go with his liebchen to the
julie
julie wrote in french:
jumped down. he smelt strongly of rum.
junction advisable, meant, among other arguments in support of his view,
just above his ear.
just as at ulm... it is...”—he seemed to be trying to find the right
just as he was going to open it the sounds ceased, the door opened, and
just as prince andrew met nesvítski and zherkóv, there came toward
just as prince andrew was a young man who gave promise of rising high
just as the architect, gardener, or princess mary did, till the prince
just as the mother and son, having reached the middle of the hall, were
just come out of a hot bath.”
just completed. he lay with his head propped high on the pillows. his
“just look at the master! a regular eagle he is!” loudly remarked
just returned from abroad where he had been educated, and this was his
“just see, the german sausage is making tracks, too!”
“just see where it carries to!” a soldier near by said sternly,
just then a closed carriage and another with a hood drove up to the
just then another visitor entered the drawing room: prince andrew
just then zherkóv entered the room.
“just to flutter the nuns a bit. they say there are italian girls
just under the icons; his large thick hands outside the quilt. into the
just visible behind a screen. a small dog began to bark.
kaiser alexander hoch!” *(2) said he, quoting words often repeated by
karl give no signs of life and make blunder after blunder. kutúzov
keep from laughter provoked by a swarthy hussar officer who walked
keeping pierre close beside her, entered the room even more boldly than
keep you long as an adjutant: a bad position! tell him i remember
kept looking round toward the drawing room door. it opened and nicholas
kept turning his horse in front of the squadron.
killed and if i have a son, do not let him be taken away from you—as i
kind, because he has been a benefactor to them both. as sterne says:
kindhearted, and because they—friends from childhood—had to think
“kind...ly let—them—pass!”
“kindly let this cart pass. don’t you see it’s a woman?” said
“kindly return to your posts,” said the staff officer trying to
kindly, smiling, handsome face and moist eyes. nesvítski could hardly
kindness!” he turned to go.
kind of talk, and at last all stopped. as often happens, the horses of
kind relation. but, nataly, you know my love for my son: i would do
kinds overtaking one another and blocking the muddy road, three and
king francis is not much delighted by your victory. even i, a poor
kírsten. the staff captain on his broad-backed, steady mare came at a
kissed her hand, presenting to her his bald, scented, and shining head,
kissing each other on the face, and then to prince andrew’s surprise
“kiss me here,” and he touched his cheek: “thanks, thanks!”
“kiss the doll,” said she.
kitten which promises to become a beautiful little cat. she evidently
knapsacks, bayonets, long muskets, and, under the shakos, faces with
knees, some squatting turkish fashion on the wet grass.
knee with the palm of his hand.
knew....”
knew what those society women are, and women in general! my father is
knocked three of them over.
know his character: noble, upright ... but you see he has no one with
know how fond the count is of her.”
know how to dance, had liked sitting in this room to watch the ladies
know how to deal with them.”
know how to equip borís.” she took out her handkerchief and began to
know how to express it ... not by a balance of political power....”
knowledge.
know my son’s going, márya dmítrievna? my son is going.”
known as la femme la plus séduisante de pétersbourg, * was also there.
know that ourselves!” another, without looking round, as though
know! the prussians are up in arms now. the austrians, you see, are
“know this, másha: i can’t reproach, have not reproached, and never
know what it is to be left a widow without means and with a son you love
know yourself that last winter the count made a will by which he left
kozlóvski were squatting on the floor by a tub so near to the commander
kozlóvski, who was sitting at the window with a book.
“kurágin is exquisite when he discusses politics—you should see his
kurágin was expecting the usual set for cards that evening, after which
     *kutúzov.
kutúzov bowed with the same smile.
kutúzov chose this latter course.
kutúzov did not reply. he seemed to have forgotten what he had been
kutúzov fell back toward vienna, destroying behind him the bridges over
kutúzov, he was sent immediately with a special dispatch to brünn.
kutúzov ... recommend borís to him as adjutant! then i shall be at
kutúzov’s expectations that the proposals of capitulation (which were
kutúzov’s face as he stood in the open doorway remained perfectly
kutúzov sighed deeply on finishing this paragraph and looked at the
kutúzov’s whole army. to be able to crush it absolutely he awaited
kutúzov turned away. the same smile of the eyes with which he had
kutúzov walked slowly and languidly past thousands of eyes which were
kutúzov walked through the ranks, sometimes stopping to say a few
kutúzov was left with only his own weak and exhausted forces. the
kutúzov went out into the porch with bagratión.
kutúzov, whom he had overtaken in poland, had received him very kindly,
kutúzov with his eagle nose and puffy face appeared in the doorway.
“la balance y est... * a german knows how to skin a flint, as the
lackeys who care nothing for their master’s business. quarante mille
lack the bump of paternity.”
ladies’ end an even chatter of voices was heard all the time, at the
lad jumped awkwardly back into the room, tripping over his spurs.
lady, adding the priest’s clerical title, as if she had no opinion of
lady visitor.
“la femme est la compagne de l’homme,” * announced prince
language: english
larger circle.
lashes, thick black plaits coiling twice round her head, and a tawny
last deciding seriously to prove to this youth how foolish his words
last long? it’s all the club and his easygoing nature. even in the
last moments by not letting him commit this injustice, and not to let
last summer, is so noble-minded and full of that real youthfulness which
last updated: january 21, 2019
late in starting her practice on the clavichord, went into the sitting
lathe?” asked prince andrew with a scarcely perceptible smile which
latter threw up his arms in surprise saying it was nowhere to be found
laugh.
laugh. and they, too, passed on, so that nesvítski did not learn who
laughed.
laughed. “i dreamed last night...”—“you were not expecting
laughed spasmodically as he stood in the porch waiting for the vicomte
laughed. “véra’s spiteful; never mind her! and all will come right
laughing.
laughter led by natásha. both partners stood still, breathing heavily
laughter that convulsed his usually impassive features.
laughter, the shouting of familiar voices, the growling of a bear, and
lavrúshka turned all the bedding over, looked under the bed and under
“lavwúska!” he shouted loudly and angrily, “take it off,
laws of its divine saviour, who preached love and forgiveness of
lay in the general progress of the war. when he saw mack and heard the
leader, called les nôtres. * this set, consisting almost exclusively of
leaf, gave it to kozlóvski, stepped quickly to the window, and threw
leaning his elbow on his knee and covering his face with his hand. after
learning that he was a special messenger led him to another entrance.
learning, was well brought up, and had a pleasant voice; what she said
least disconcerted by this reception. he had just entered, wearing an
leave me alone with him!”
le charmant hippolyte was surprising by his extraordinary resemblance
left...” a fat major skirted a bush, puffing and falling out of
left bank of the danube and took up a position for the first time
left but to die?” he thought. “well, if need be, i shall do it no
left him, rubbing his small white hands.
left like this. every moment is precious. i can’t think why his nieces
left the chair on which he had been leaning, and—with an air
legal heir to everything and you won’t get anything. you must know,
legs, looked directly at prince vasíli with no sign of emotion in her
lemarrois had just arrived at a gallop with bonaparte’s stern letter,
length portrait of catherine the great. the same people were still
leonine head. this head, with its remarkably broad brow and cheekbones,
lesson, was about to leave: “mathematics are most important, madam!
less than you do, but be a man!”
“let go, i tell you! i will take the responsibility. i myself will go
let her know.”
“let him do it, let him do it,” said dólokhov, smiling.
“let’s come, quick, quick!” and with a glance round, she smiled at
letter are not destroyed, then you will have nothing but the consolation
letters that had come from the archduke ferdinand, who was in command of
letter to murat:
letter to the emperor begging him to recognize pierre as legitimate, it
“let them pass, i tell you!” repeated prince andrew, compressing his
let themselves be tricked at the crossing of the vienna bridge, you are
letting yourself be tricked by an aide-de-camp of the emperor.
“let us go and have supper,” he said with a sigh, going to the door.
“let us go, iván lukích,” he said to the captain.
“let us go ourselves. i only came round to ask denísov about
“let us go to her, i must say good-by. or—go and wake and i’ll
“liberty and equality,” said the vicomte contemptuously, as if at
liberty not to believe me and i don’t even care whether you do or
lid, drew out a drawer, and took out an exercise book filled with his
lieutenant general, our dear prince auersperg von mautern himself.
life, all alone—for papa is always busy, and i... well, you know what
life, and can’t, for i know no other. but think, andrew: for a young
life guards, who had been losing that evening, climbed on the window
life, he felt an unaccountable tenderness for this young man and made up
“lift it two lines more and it will be just right,” cried he in a
light blue viennese calèche, slightly creaking on its springs and drawn
lighted mirrors which repeated their reflections several times. now
light. it was evident that the more lifeless he seemed at ordinary
lightly, more lightly, and yet more lightly whirled the count, flying
lights of shops, houses, and street lamps, fine carriages, and all that
like a bird than a man.”
like a child, he fell into a deep, youthful slumber.
liked to. he looked inquiringly at his monitress and saw that she was
liked to tell him. he gathered up the papers and with a bow to both,
likes her way of reading. she reads to him in the evenings and reads
like that six months ago?”
like these if one has any feeling?” said anna pávlovna. “you are
line and that of the enemy were far apart on the right and left flanks,
line followed them across and the last cossacks quitted the farther side
linen shirt unfastened in front. “wait a bit, you fellows.... here is
line—the officers had been unable to keep sight-seers away. the
lingered for a moment.
lips.
“lise, i beg you to desist,” said prince andrew still more
“lise!” said prince andrew dryly, raising his voice to the pitch
lise sighed too.
lise? take her to your room and i’ll go to father. how is he? just the
“lise!” was all prince andrew said. but that one word expressed
lise, young bolkónski’s wife, this very evening, and perhaps the
“listen, dear annette,” said the prince, suddenly taking anna
listened attentively. his favorite occupation when not playing boston, a
listened, refraining from a reply, and involuntarily wondered how this
listening to bilíbin he was already imagining how on reaching the army
“listen!” said he; “don’t worry about your wife: what can be
listen to his tale.
“listen to me, prince,” said she. “i have never yet asked you
listen, while waiting till it would be time to leave. her task was
lit room adjoining the count’s reception room. it was one of those
little fingers. “all right! then it’s settled?”
little frenchy, successful only because there were no longer any
little princess.
little princess, and having asked for a needle began tracing the condé
little princess, shrugging her shoulders.
little table, and anna mikháylovna noticed that something was agitating
little towns there’s nowhere to spend it,” said he. “well, let me
little waves of the enns, which rippling and eddying round the piles of
little while, felt as if they too were becoming, like her, full of life
lively disposition, bent over her frame to hide a smile probably evoked
lively little girl’s look made him inclined to laugh without knowing
livery, get up behind the carriage, and come with me while i make some
loading.
locality and surroundings—fruit gardens, stone fences, tiled roofs,
loftiness of soul. she has refused to evacuate malta. she wanted to
london—could pronounce pitt’s sentence, he saw a well-built and
“long ago,” answered rostóv, “i have already been for the hay,
longer and went on, between gasps of laughter: “and the whole world
longer to hinder them but because the guns were trained and there was
look at me,” cried denísov who, unable to keep still on one spot,
“look at papa!” shouted natásha to the whole company, and quite
“look at papa!” though as it was they never took their eyes off the
looked as clean and well washed as the tips of one’s fingers after a
looked at telyánin. the lieutenant was looking about in his usual way
looked like tradespeople, ran hurriedly from the entrance and hid in the
looked straight at his adjutant’s face without recognizing him.
looked very thoughtful and tender. with his hands behind him he paced
look for her.
looking at her own handsome face she seemed to become still colder and
looking at his watch.
looking at pierre. “at the present time it is difficult to know the
looking at the ground, he came on some sticky, trodden mud, stumbled,
looking at the puff from the gun that had sent the ball. his eyes
looking at those driving past as if he pitied all who were not at that
looking down at the waters of the enns under the bridge, nesvítski
looking like something between a cart, a cabriolet, and a calèche.
looking round at the sound.
looking with dismay at her husband.
“look! look there!” one soldier was saying to another, pointing to a
“look, prince,” said another, who would have dearly liked to take
“look sharp! look sharp!” several voices repeated around him.
lorrain considered.
lorrain, pursing up his lips, waved a severely negative finger before
lorrain’s instructions. the german doctor went up to lorrain.
losing confidence in its allies, suffering from shortness of supplies,
lost....” and prince hippolyte began to tell his story in such russian
lost count of his children, but this pierre was his favorite.”
loudly, handing kutúzov an envelope.
loud that those in the drawing room heard her and were startled. “why
love, love of one’s neighbor, love of one’s enemy, is worthier,
lovers of music do when they hear a false note. the two women let go
loving and honoring him. “why, i have not yet had time to settle
lower one, and something like two distinct smiles played continually
low tones.
luck! such ill luck. as soon as you left, it began and went on. hullo
luck the man has!”
luggage. franz, bilíbin’s man, was dragging a portmanteau with some
l’u! * i shall certainly adopt an innovation and call him simply
luxurious study and sat down to the dinner prepared for him. bilíbin
lying on the ground; they also met a crowd of soldiers some of whom were
ma chère! on behalf of the whole family i beg you to come, mon cher!”
“ma chère, there is a time for everything,” said the countess with
machine or set it in proper motion, so anna pávlovna moved about her
mack. an austrian general complained of me. i congratulated him on
mack, have by now already gained a decisive victory and no longer need
mack’s arrival... what’s the matter, rostóv? you look as if you’d
“madame de genlis! madame de genlis!” shouted laughing voices
“madame, i doubt my ability before such an audience,” said he,
made a grimace, as if expecting something unpleasant.
made elegantly witty. in society he always awaited an opportunity to say
made for the sacrament of unction, and in his house there was the bustle
madeira”... “hungarian”... or “rhine wine” as the case might
maid of honor’s hand to his lips, kissed it, and swung it to and fro
maid with the decanter in her haste had not closed the door (everything
majestically entered the room. he was wearing his long coat with three
majestic figure of his father, count bezúkhov, with that gray mane of
majesty’s and you were pitied....”
majesty, “who, thank god, was better today.” and each visitor,
make a remark, for the conversation interested him, but anna pávlovna,
make something exceptional of them,” said the visitor.
makes things trying for you, doesn’t it?” prince andrew asked
make them look at the wag.
“malbrook s’en va-t-en guerre. dieu sait quand reviendra.” *
mamma has sent for me to go and dine at the apráksins’. read the
“mamma!” rang out the clear contralto notes of her childish voice,
“mamma told me to ask you to join the dancers.”
“mamma! what sweets are we going to have?” and natásha’s voice
“mamma! what sweets are we going to have?” natásha again cried
man.
managed to utter (to her everything seemed funny). she leaned against
man. either this look meant nothing but that as long as one has eyes
mane—which, though he saw other faces as well, he had not lost sight
man.... here he is, and the count has not once asked for him.”
man is the count’s son,” she added more softly. “what a terrible
manly voice interrupting them both. “of course you artillery men are
manner he wore in drawing rooms, but with the animated face with which
manner nor a desire to enter into conversation, but speaking so quietly
manners, who evidently considered himself a celebrity but out of
man, of medium height, with firm, clearcut features. everything about
man? on such matters i am only severe with myself. i understand such
man’s hand and moving her lips as if to send it a kiss. pierre,
man’s high, stout, uncovered chest and powerful shoulders, raised by
man’s penetration he understood all that was passing in bolkónski’s
man’s simple-minded eagerness, was explaining his pet theory. both
man. the revolution was a grand thing!” continued monsieur pierre,
man who has at length begun to attain a long-desired happiness. as soon
man with a diamond ring on his forefinger, who was fond of speaking
many wrinkles on his large features, to rostóv who was crimson with
marching thirty miles that stormy night across roadless hills, with his
marching with particular grace and boldness in time to the song and
maria theresa order of the third grade, which the emperor was conferring
     * “marlborough is going to the wars; god knows when he’ll
marriageable daughters, and of the young ladies themselves, toward
marry!” concluded prince andrew.
mary
márya dmítrievna.
márya dmítrievna and the countess burst out laughing, and all the
“márya dmítrievna?” came her voice from there.
márya dmítrievna, curved his arms, beat time, straightened his
márya dmítrievna on her right and anna mikháylovna on her left, the
“márya dmítrievna! what kind of ice pudding? i don’t like ice
“márya lvóvna karágina and her daughter!” announced the
mary, and the little princess. prince andrew had been called to his
mary bolkónskaya.”
mary entered the antechamber as usual at the time appointed for the
mary, having taken and closed the exercise book with the next day’s
masses of russian troops. at the bend of the danube, vessels, an island,
mass. looking down over the rails prince nesvítski saw the rapid, noisy
matchmaking chronicles of moscow now speak of me as the future countess
matter might be he did not care, but it gave him great pleasure to
matters, social interests and the fair sex occupied no small part of his
may christ be with you in your great endeavor!”
may i shall do my duty. i will come and spend the night. he must not be
may laugh as much as you like, but all the same bonaparte is a great
me!”
me.”
me?”
meadow.”
mean good french society—will have been forever destroyed, and
meant by the words all is over, “and the count’s papers are opened,
mean to fight, let’s fight. but the devil knows what this is.”
meanwhile kutúzov sent his adjutants back to hasten to the utmost the
meanwhile nesvítski, zherkóv, and the officer of the suite were
meanwhile prince vasíli had opened the door into the princess’ room.
meanwhile the staff officer standing in front pointed out something to
meanwhile the younger generation: borís, the officer, anna
me apologize, because if he, as commander of this regiment, thinks it
me; but, my dear, i am getting on for sixty and must be prepared for
me, but that he’ll marry julie. you see how he’s been with her all
medal he can get his reward just as well in the rearguard, but if he
meditatively and rapidly:
me!” he began to laugh. “well, what of it! i hope we’ll get better
me. i am used to suffering.”
me i lied, and i told him he lied. and there it rests. he may keep me
member of the hofkriegsrath mildly and attentively.
memory, his extensive reading (he had read everything, knew everything,
memory, i will do the impossible—your son shall be transferred to the
men of the same kind hiding in the shadow of the house on both sides.
men’s end the voices sounded louder and louder, especially that of the
men should be in their greatcoats and in marching order, and that the
men should continue to march at ease, and he and all his suite showed
men uselessly, and so had hastened to throw some sharpshooters into the
men was to attack the french from different sides. the old prince did
men, who here, as in vienna, formed a special set which bilíbin, their
me of her own accord in the evening and tell me everything. perhaps i
me only the day before yesterday not to forget borís. but he had
me, pierre. i shall not forget your interests.”
me!” rostóv whispered.
merrily.
merrily and prettily as ever.
merrily to everyone at once, sat down and gaily arranged herself in her
merry.
metallic roar, and a whistling grenade flew above the heads of our
methods that he had better leave genoa alone?” retorted prince andrew
me to burn the bridge! i know the service, and it is my habit orders
me to inform you... but, don’t be uneasy,” he added, noticing that
me! what will become of us? i am the wife of the doctor of the seventh
michael ivánovich are the two people to whom he is always gentle and
“michael ivánovich!” cried the old prince to the architect who,
michael ivánovich did not at all know when “you and i” had said
middle, a cry was heard, then princess mary’s heavy tread and the
middle of his mouth and with red lips gently inhaled the smoke, letting
middle of the drawing room on the first chair he had come across,
might be up to on the sly” (she meant that they would be kissing),
might easily succeed to the post; how popular he was with everyone in
might outweigh all the courage of the russian troops, and at the same
mikháylovna.
mikháylovna and snatching the portfolio from her.
mikháylovna as she entered, and at the big stout figure of pierre who,
mikháylovna drubetskáya. rostóv, the father, is ilyá, and his son is
mikháylovna enthusiastically, quite forgetting all the humiliation she
mikháylovna evinced no surprise, she only smiled faintly and sighed, as
mikháylovna in passing instinctively glanced into the room, where
mikháylovna looked attentively at the sick man’s eyes, trying to
mikháylovna made a hurried sign with her eyes, glancing at the sick
mikháylovna of one of them.
mikháylovna, or you will not hold out.”
mikháylovna pass and did not evince the least surprise at seeing them
mikháylovna returned to the rostóvs’ and went to bed. on waking in
mikháylovna?” said he. “let us wait until evening. the doctors are
mikháylovna,” said prince vasíli, arranging his lace frill, and in
mikháylovna’s son; nicholas, the undergraduate, the count’s eldest
mikháylovna. though the latter held on tenaciously, her voice lost none
mikháylovna, whom she had not seen properly since she returned from
mikhelson’s army i understand—tolstóy ‘s too... a simultaneous
milan?” asked anna pávlovna, “and of the comedy of the people of
miles away from the french. at grunth also some apprehension and alarm
“mind, annette, i hope you have not played a wicked trick on me,”
mind at rest,” said he without altering his tone, beneath the
mind easy,” said he in abrupt sentences while sealing his letter.
mind. “if a tenth part of his detachment returns i shall thank god,”
“mind, no holding on!” cried another.
mind once for all that what he saw happening around him that evening was
“mind, walk him up and down well!”
mined?”
mined and doubly mined and that there are menacing fortifications at its
mine. i have written to my poor mother,” said the smiling mademoiselle
ministers and great people, and know how to deal with them all! it’s
minister’s bent bald head with its gray temples. he went on reading
minutes later the eldest sister came out with a pale hard face, again
miserable man who stood before him, but the task he had begun had to be
mistake. marry when you are old and good for nothing—or all that is
modern science of strategics, had been handed to kutúzov when he was in
moment!”
moment.”
moment had arrived. with the air of a practical petersburg lady she now,
moment he was clearly thinking of nothing but how dashing a fellow he
moment imagined himself to be napoleon in person and to have just
moment marching with the company. the hussar cornet of kutúzov’s
moment when the first report was heard a fourth was seen. then two
“mon dieu, mon dieu!” she muttered, and lifting her dress with one
monk he received and had a long talk with.”
monsieur buonaparte sitting on a throne and granting the petitions of
more and holding out the letter.
more animated. “and believe me, they are reaping the reward of their
moreau would have been a prisoner if suvórov had had a free hand; but
more, but he waited and did nothing.
more cheerful in his presence, and were evidently anxious to display
more confident was the appearance of our troops. the soldiers in
more natural and animated than usual, so that the wrinkles round
more than they did anatole. dólokhov could play all games and nearly
more than timókhin had done when he was reprimanded by the regimental
more to do with you and you are no longer my friend, no longer my
morning.
morning greeting, crossing herself with trepidation and repeating a
morning or evening than night. on the way pierre remembered that anatole
morning, the lines were so near together that the men could see one
morning till night and abstemious, so of course i am well.”
morsels. the group about mortemart immediately began discussing the
moscow for his equipment, was to join them on the march to radzivílov.
“moscow has nothing else to do but gossip,” borís went on.
moscow when borís was a boy of fourteen, and had quite forgotten him,
most in people. as to his inheritance and the part played by prince
most joyful though erroneous rumors were rife of the imaginary approach
most of the guests, uncertain how to regard this sally, looked at the
mother!...”
mother and the youngest daughter—both named nataly. ever since
mother, drawing her hand from beneath her old mantle and laying
mother keep you in their holy and all-powerful care!
mother, pushing away her daughter with pretended sternness, and turning
mothers used to be married at twelve or thirteen.”
motionless masses of the french now swayed and that there really was
motive of his visit, “is it true that the dowager empress wants
mountains, defending himself against superior forces of the enemy and
mountains of bohemia, and you and your army would have spent a bad
mount and ride to the bridge. (observe that all three are gascons.)
mounted frenchmen, probably adjutants, were galloping up the hill. a
mounting his horse again prince andrew lingered with the battery,
mouth all seemed puckered into a vacant, wearied grimace, and his arms
mouth. another was walking sturdily by himself but without his musket,
mouth full of false teeth, as if she were trying to cheat old age....
mouth!” said bilíbin, and the mop of hair on his head moved with
moved his forces to attack the center and outflank both the russian
movement of soldiers forming ranks and getting their muskets ready,
movements of the austrian army, and then give it to his excellency.”
movements of the baggage trains of the entire army along the krems-znaim
movements of the bearers, and the cold listless gaze fixed itself upon
movements were still slow and measured.
moving a chair close to hers seated himself beside her.
“mr. aide-de-camp! help me!... what does it all mean?” screamed the
“mr. aide-de-camp! mr. aide-de-camp!... for heaven’s sake... protect
much, and all of you, only véra... and what for? what have i done
much prettier. pierre was received as if he were a corpse or a leper.
much that the count held him up as a pattern to the other guests. berg
murat. bonaparte himself, not trusting to his generals, moved with all
murat’s detachment and the battle had not yet begun. in bagratión’s
murat’s emissary and retired, leaving bagratión’s division
murder of the duc d’enghien. the vicomte said that the duc d’enghien
must be broken off ... and then you know, andré...” (she looked
must excuse me,” said he, putting pierre at ease instead of being put
must have an explanation...”
must have pity on a young man in misfortune. you know he has important
must put in an appearance there,” said the prince. “my daughter is
my advance guard, and have no right to arrange an armistice without my
“my dear anna mikháylovna,” said he with his usual familiarity and
“my dear benefactor! this is what i expected from you—i knew your
“my dear borís,” said princess anna mikháylovna to her son as
“my dear!” exclaimed his mother imploringly, again laying her hand
“my dear fellow, how are you?” said he through the singing, making
“my dear fellow, you are a hero!” said bilíbin.
“my dear princess catherine semënovna,” began prince vasíli
“my dear,” she said to her son, once more stimulating him by a
my dear, whether the will and letter were written, and whether they have
my father has not spoken to me of a suitor, but has only told me that he
my friend... i only need see prince vasíli sergéevich: he is staying
“my friend,” said anna mikháylovna in gentle tones, addressing
my geometry lessons,” said princess mary gleefully, as if her lessons
“my part is played out,” said prince andrew. “what’s the use of
my relations with him, transient as they were, have been one of the
my respects to monsieur your father and my compliments to mademoiselle
mystical book i am sending you; it has an enormous success here. though
my wife—are the count’s only direct heirs. i know, i know how hard
“my wife,” continued prince andrew, “is an excellent woman, one
name.
name-day party.
napkin, from behind the next man’s shoulders and whispered: “dry
napoleon
napoleon happened to fall into one of the fainting fits to which he was
napoleon’s army of one hundred and fifty thousand men would cut him
napoleon’s words. “‘i opened my antechambers and they crowded
narrowed disdainfully, he entered the room of the minister of war with
“natálya ilyníchna behaves very well to me,” remarked borís. “i
natásha blushed and laughed.
natásha came in and walking straight up to pierre said, laughing and
natásha considered.
natásha did not like the visitor’s tone of condescension to childish
“natásha,” he said, “you know that i love you, but....”
natásha kept pulling everyone by sleeve or dress, urging them to
natásha kissed her on the hair.
natásha only desisted when she had been told that there would be
natásha, raising her face for a moment from her mother’s mantilla,
natásha saw there was nothing to be afraid of and so she braved even
natásha’s large mouth widened, making her look quite ugly, and she
natásha, stopping suddenly. “i feel so happy!”
nearer, faster and louder, louder and faster, a cannon ball, as if it
nearer. then the clang of hoofs, as of several horses galloping,
nearest him were not to blame for they were themselves pressed still
near sixty, dear friend... i too... all will end in death, all! death is
near the strange lady. prince vasíli in front of the door, near the
necessary. halfway up the stairs they were almost knocked over by
necessary,” said the younger of the two speakers, evidently in the
necessary to enable it to retreat without losing its heavy equipment.
necessary to go on insisting day after day and hour after hour, and even
necessary to take some part in it.
neck and the corners of her mouth drooped.
neck instead.
neck. it seemed to rostóv that bogdánich was only pretending not
need to hurry. however, he put his horse to a trot in the direction
negotiations and to offer the russian army the three days’ truce.
neither i nor my mother would ever ask or take anything from him.”
neither quickly nor slowly. at this natásha dashed swiftly among the
nesvítski.
nesvítski and zherkóv were so surprised by this outburst that they
nesvítski looked round and saw, some fifteen paces away but separated
“nesvítski, nesvítski! you numskull!” came a hoarse voice from
nesvítski rose, puffing, and went up to the general, smiling.
nesvítski. “they’ve made up splendid packs for me—fit to cross
nesvítski tried to move on, soldiers and carts pushed him back again
nesvítski with a laugh threw his arms round prince andrew, but
neutral... i know that. what about austria?” said he, rising from his
neutrality is just a trap. i have faith only in god and the lofty
never favorably disposed toward him—would have used it to turn the
“never, never marry, my dear fellow! that’s my advice: never marry
never take it off. do you promise?”
never thought much of him.”
never understand it, because you’ve never loved anyone. you have no
news i may take back to my poor boy.”
next day he woke late. recalling his recent impressions, the first
next day prince vasíli had arrived and settled in the count’s house.
next glanced round in alarm.
nice indeed, quite french,” and he kissed the tips of his fingers.
nicholas’ career and am heartless and ungrateful, while truly... god
nicholas. i never knew any madame jacquot.”
“nicholas is going away in a week’s time, his... papers... have
nicholas rostóv turned away and, as if searching for something, gazed
nicholas sat at some distance from sónya, beside julie karágina, to
nicholas was to go with him to the regiment; then came anna mikháylovna
(nicknamed in society, “the king of prussia”) ever since the emperor
night.”
night a motley throng of people sat there, not merrymaking, but somberly
night long without closing their eyes, while the adjutants and
night, so dark that the coachman could not see the carriage pole.
ninety thousand strong, was to threaten prussia so as to bring her out
“no.”
“no, andrew, i must say you have changed. oh, how you have....”
“no, but do promise! i won’t let you go! my dear benefactor...”
“no, but imagine the old countess zúbova, with false curls and her
“no, but i say,” said pierre, calming down, “you are a wonderful
“no,” cried he, becoming more and more eager, “napoleon is great
“no, fifty,” replied the latter.
“no, friend, he is sharper-eyed than you are. boots and leg bands...
“no, friend,” said a pleasant and, as it seemed to prince andrew, a
no fruit. i never could understand the fondness some people have for
“no, gentlemen, no... you mustn’t think... i quite understand.
“no, he thinks only of himself,” muttered the princess without
“no, if i hadn’t thought of it being a treasure,” said rostóv,
“no, i have a wicked heart.”
“no, i have not; but this is what i have been thinking and wanted
“no, impossible!” said prince andrew, laughing and pressing
“no, it can’t be helped, lad,” said the prince. “they’re
“no, i tell you.”
“no, i won’t promise that. you don’t know how kutúzov is pestered
“no, i won’t,” said pierre, pushing anatole aside, and he went up
no longer a young diplomat, as he had entered the service at the age
no longer looked at the french but paid attention to the sight-seers and
no more. she is so affected. ask her in,” she said to the footman in a
none to anyone.”
nonintervention. and...” he paused. “finally one cannot impute the
“non, madame.” he smiled quite inappropriately.
“no, no, please not... you are mademoiselle bourienne,” said
“no, nothing.”
nonreceipt of our dispatch of november 18. that is how it will end.”
nonsense, but it would in fact have been difficult to give any other
“nonsense!” he cried, and the veins on his forehead and neck stood
“nonsense, nonsense!” cried the old man, shaking his pigtail to
nonsense out of your head.”
no one had given túshin orders where and at what to fire, but after
no one would understand that it was not to quench his thirst or from
“no, on my word it’s not obstinacy! i can’t describe the feeling.
“no, peter nikoláevich; i only want to show that in the cavalry
“no—promise that you will not refuse! it will give you no trouble
no restrictions whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use
“no? she is very nice and kind and, above all, she’s much to be
no sky but only an atmosphere.”
nostitz, the austrian general occupying the advanced posts, believed
not a diplomatist. that’s why i joined the hussars, thinking that here
“no talking in the ranks!... no talking, no talking!”
“not all, for you will not be there; not all,” said prince hippolyte
not answer. the hussar at that moment noticed the face of the red-nosed
“not at all,” said prince andrew.
not attract a moment’s attention to their own evolutions and did not
“not bonaparte. he is the emperor! sacré nom...!” cried he angrily.
“not bound to endure insults,” dólokhov concluded in loud, ringing
not, but you have no grounds for telling me so. and that is the whole
not captured.” again he pondered. “i am very glad you have brought
not? delightful!”
not disfigured by the approach of death. it was the same as pierre
note. i am in such a state.... my only hope now is in count cyril
not evince the least interest during this explanation, but as if he were
not exist.
not forsake him. he will fulfill his vocation and crush the hydra of
not go to any large gatherings, but only to small receptions. prince
not have caused him to expect that honor. the prince, who generally kept
“no, there is no change. i only came to have a talk about business,
nothing.
nothing about firing it.”
nothing about it and have not thought about it. moscow is chiefly busy
nothing but meanness, deceit, envy, intrigue, and ingratitude—the
nothing. i am very amiable and have a caustic wit,” continued prince
nothing is so necessary for a young man as the society of clever
nothing, nothing, nothing! no, don’t marry, my dear fellow; don’t
“nothing of the sort. orders are issued for a battle.”
nothing when they have no powers; this one had none.... the austrians
noticed that he was pale and that his jaw quivered and shook as if in an
noticed that they had not come to the front entrance but to the back
noticed the look of terror with which pierre regarded that lifeless arm,
noticing what a bad state of things it was. the regimental commander
not ill-spent. he is worth it!”
no time. i hope, my dear friend, you will carry out your father’s
“not in the least,” replied the vicomte. “after the murder of the
not, it was decided at a consultation between the battalion commanders
not knowing what to do, and glanced inquiringly at his guide. anna
not knowing whether it would be proper to call the dying man “the
“not let the wife have him?” said the old man, and laughed.
not letting the abbé and pierre escape, anna pávlovna, the more
not listening to it continued to dress while walking about, and three
not love liberty and equality? even our saviour preached liberty and
“not on any account!” exclaimed rostóv.
“not only occupied, but bonaparte is at schönbrunn, and the count,
not right.”
not see him at all.”
“not that either. that puts the court in too bad a light,” replied
not two minutes had passed before prince vasíli with head erect
not used to it. she will retaliate. and she has been fooled in the
not wanted here? go to the other girls, or...”
not worse than this one.”
“not yet. but where are you off to?”
not yet dispersed before another puff appeared, followed by a report.
not you! go back or i’ll flatten you into a pancake,” repeated he.
“now about your family. do you know that since your daughter came
“no, wait, pierre! the princess is too kind to wish to deprive me of
now approached the sick man with the noiseless step of one in full vigor
now at her, moved as if about to rise too, but changed his mind.
“now come, come! be reasonable. i know your excellent heart.”
“no! what kind, márya dmítrievna? what kind?” she almost screamed;
nowhere to hunt with your dogs? but what is to be done, old man? just
“now i am all right,” she said, and asking the vicomte to begin, she
“now i see it all! i know who has been intriguing—i know!” cried
now on one side, now on the other, giving his face an unpleasant
now permissible; “the door to the left, ma’am.”
now rose and took their leave. the visitor’s daughter was already
“now, sídorov, you have a try!”
“now then, go away and take your monstrosity with you,” said the
“now then, go on, go on!” incited the officer, bending forward and
“now then, let’s see how far it will carry, captain. just try!”
“now then, you devil’s puppet, look alive and hunt for it!”
“now, véra, what does it matter to you?” said natásha in defense,
“now what does this mean, gentlemen?” said the staff officer, in
“no, you’ll never manage him that way,” said anatole. “wait a
number one jumped briskly aside. the gun rang out with a deafening
nursery.”
object above his head and, holding it there for some seconds, suddenly
obviously strange to her to think that this stern handsome man should be
obviously trying to restrain within the bounds of decorum the excitement
occasionally drew it down to meet the lower lip. as is always the case
occupied. he was himself always occupied: writing his memoirs, solving
occurred to him, though the question he was about to ask was the chief
occurred to his regiment, but in reality he did not himself know what
odýntsova had married an old man, and that there was a suitor for mary,
o’erpassed,” said an old priest to a lady who had taken a seat
of a battle but also disbelieved in the nearness of an engagement.
of affairs?” concluded his father. “but it troubles me. i don’t
of a girl, but i like her.”
of a gun at ismail.
of a man who enjoys life and knows how to live, he swayed to and
of an immense fortune. the will has not yet been opened. i know you
of a parade. we had expected, as i told you, to get at their rear by
of a pleasure, and obliges me to interrupt you. i am very sorry to leave
of a ruling prince, in a crown—an alleged descendant of rúrik and
of assurance and haste, pierre concluded that it was all absolutely
of awe and even servility. a deference such as he had never before
of bonaparte.
of bonaparte, encountering a population that was unfriendly to it,
of capacity for philosophical meditation (to which he himself was
of columns from russia, of some victory gained by the austrians, and of
of command.
of communications, recross the river lower down, and frustrate his
of count bezúkhov’s death. she said the count had died as she would
“of course. i’m going into action! i’ve shaved, bwushed my teeth,
“of course. what is it?”
of deep bass voices, and in the intervals sighs and the shuffling of
of each shot, as at the word of command, the whole squadron with its
of everything. one must think of the future, of all of you... i love you
of expression and intonation that obliged one to listen to each
of expression on his face. now his forehead would pucker into deep folds
of face, evidently worn out with childbearing—she had had twelve.
off completely and surround his exhausted army of forty thousand, and he
of fellow. as for the past two years people have amused themselves
offended tone.
offend me. really i have some,” rostóv repeated.
offensive, the plan of which, carefully prepared in accord with the
offered a most striking contrast to his quiet, little wife. it was
off his cloak.
off his courage, had ridden on to the planks of the bridge:
officer arrived, but at a sign resumed his measured, monotonous pacing.
officer as in a looking glass—started, moved forward, and answered:
officer has stolen...”
officer in charge of transport was beating the soldier who was driving
officer in the semënov regiment with whom borís was to travel to join
officer joined in the colonel’s appeals, but bagratión did not reply;
officer of the suite by the arm. “look! a man has fallen! fallen,
officer pointing to the soldiers. “the officers don’t keep them in
officers,” continued the staff captain, “and bogdánich” (the
officer sends for auersperg; these gentlemen embrace the officers, crack
officers. now what was the colonel to do? have the officer tried and
officer’s remark was just and that really no answer could be made to
officers were counting the men, poking the last man in each section in
officers who had been standing together rode off to their places. the
officer, that he would drink a bottle of rum sitting on the outer ledge
official appointed to the province in which the prince’s estate lay
off on the line of kutúzov’s retreat. if he reached znaim before the
of for a single moment during the whole service. he judged by the
of habit said things he did not even wish to be believed.
of having been dutiful et tout ce qui s’ensuit!* that’s certain.”
of her neutrality and draw her into the war; how part of that army was
of her saint’s-day fete, turned away at once and addressed herself to
of him, listened to him, admired, and imitated him, and with them prince
of his coat and looking down at him—the englishman was short—began
of his mouth and winking at the count.
of his own, goodness only knows why, he leaves me and locks me up alone
of his speech. “vous comptez vous faire des rentes sur l’état; *
of his whip fell on the apron of the equipage. the woman screamed
of how to get away quickly to her own room to make out the problem in
of it. prince andrew” (he always spoke thus of his son) “has been
of its honeyed firmness and softness.
of its rightful king,” she concluded, trying to be amiable to the
of it. the only question is, has it been destroyed or not? if not, then
of life, with his delicate white fingers raised from the green quilt the
of love and sadness. it was plain that she was following a train of
of mack’s defeat, the camp life of the officers of this squadron was
of mack, the news of his defeat, and the thought of what lay before the
of mingled shame and vexation.
of one another, and then, as if afraid of being too late, seized each
of other things and to look in other directions, thought only of what
of profound thought. the round, steady, hawk’s eyes looked before him
of prussia’s consent by assault. you are so eloquent. will you give me
of reflection are generally in a serious frame of mind. at such moments
of rum in his hand was approaching the window, from which the light of
of,” said the princess in the same petulantly playful tone in which
of sixteen, had been in paris and copenhagen, and now held a rather
of smoke that had concealed the hollow, driven by a rising wind, began
of something too large and unsuited to the place, came over her face
of sónya, who blushed and smiled unnaturally. in the midst of his talk
of speech and of the press—and only for that reason did he obtain
often heard. “what is this?” thought prince andrew approaching the
of that song.
of the action balls and shells began flying all over his regiment and
of the actual battlefield. they began to meet wounded men. one with a
of the army into the hands of a better informed and more skillful
of the behavior of the eldest princess and prince vasíli she spoke
of the colonel, nesvítski, zherkóv, and the officer from the suite.
of the commander in chief’s special favor he was sent with the news of
of the french were coming down upon them and that his regiment was in
of the guards, a girl of fifteen, and a plump rosy-faced boy in a short
of the lathe he removed his foot from the pedal, wiped his chisel,
of the lean sinewy hand, showed that the prince still possessed the
of them forgot what was happening and what was about to happen in the
of the oft-repeated passage of the sonata. prince andrew stopped and
of the river.
of the road were forests of different kinds, fields, and villages.
of the service the voices of the priests suddenly ceased, they whispered
of the thabor bridge is delightful! it is not exactly stupidity, nor
of the third company!”
of the third floor window with his legs hanging out.
of the upper lip formed a sharp wedge and closed firmly on the firm
of the war that had been announced in a manifesto, and about the
of the way! make way!”
of thirteen, hiding something in the folds of her short muslin frock,
of this delicious russian tea,” lorrain was saying with an air of
of this set.
of those rare women with whom a man’s honor is safe; but, o god, what
of túshin’s battery. prince andrew followed with the suite. behind
     of whom you have made a friend, but not for you, not for
of wounded pride, and a hope of glory. “and should there be nothing
of you.”
oh, andrew! what a treasure of a wife you have,” said she, sitting
“oh dear, what am i thinking about? i’ve mixed everything up. one
“oh, don’t speak of his going, don’t! i won’t hear it spoken
“oh, don’t speak to me of austria. perhaps i don’t understand
“oh, every bullet has its billet,” answered váska denísov, turning
“oh, heaven! how ill he is!” exclaimed the mother.
“oh, he is in a dreadful state,” said the mother to her son when
“oh, he is so kind!” answered princess mary.
“oh, he’s all right, a good horse,” answered rostóv, though the
“oh, how dreadful! how can you laugh at it, count?”
“oh, how nice,” thought natásha; and when sónya and nicholas had
“oh, i must give you a treat,” bilíbin whispered to bolkónski.
“oh! i thought you were in your room,” she said, for some reason
“oh, it’s wetched! well, what are you standing there for, you
“oh, leave off!” said the accountant with a beaming but rather
“oh, little countess!” ... and the count began bustling to get out
“oh, my bower new...!” chimed in twenty voices, and the castanet
“oh, my bower, oh, my bower...!”
“oh, my dear fellow, we’re in such a stew here these last two
“oh, my god! my god! schmidt!” he exclaimed in german. “what a
“oh no, not at all too young!” replied the count. “why, our
“oh! oh!” exclaimed several voices.
“oh! oh!” groaned nesvítski as if in fierce pain, seizing the
“oh! oh! oh!”
“oh! oh! oh!” he muttered, looking down from the window at the
“oh, well, well!” remarked the regimental commander. “still, one
“oh, what a terrible state he is in! one would not know him, he is so
“oh, you don juan! you serpent!” cried several voices.
“oh, your excellency!” said franz, with difficulty rolling the
old age and tobacco, which she had known so long. “now, madam, these
old count bezúkhov, and his inheritance. fancy! the three princesses
older visitors. they now, stretching themselves after sitting so long,
oldest rose. márya dmítrievna paused at the door. tall and stout,
old father, and entering the military service, my dear. and there was a
old man continued to fold and seal his letter, snatching up and throwing
old man, living alone in the country for so many years, could know and
old man, shaking his powdered head as much as the tail, which tíkhon
olga went out. pierre stood looking at the sisters; then he bowed and
“o lord god! thou who art in that heaven, save, forgive, and protect
on.
on account of the smoke nothing could be seen. the nearer they got to
on a chair in the ballroom, crossing one leg high over the other,
on a hot dish.
on all sides. the countess rose and went into the ballroom.
on all sides they saw rain-soaked officers with dejected faces who
on anything. it was about this choice that prince andrew was speaking.
on at the crossing. and why are they dawdling there?”
on both sides. behind our position was a steep and deep dip, making it
once been in to see the count. he has not sent for me.... i am sorry for
once more the conversations concentrated, the ladies’ at the one end
on cloaks or mantles, and drive away. the conversation was on the chief
on duty every day, or may place me under arrest, but no one can make
one another.
one but the emperor of russia has that right.
“one!” came the command.
“one can’t everywhere say all one thinks, mon cher. well, have
“one can’t write so fast, your honor,” said the clerk, glancing
one considers that by tomorrow one may be dead, or something so
one feels as if one were in the country.”
one foot, from the orderly and began to mount.
one had put but which was always in her mind, “and how much suffering,
“one moment, your excellency.”
“one must admit,” continued prince andrew, “that napoleon as a man
“one must be indulgent to little weaknesses; who is free from them,
one of disdain which was quite uncalled for. his fertile mind instantly
one of the guests. “the vicomte is a wonderful raconteur,” said she
one of them knew, not one of them wanted to know, and not one of them
one of them was a sallow, clean-shaven civilian with a thin and wrinkled
one of the next arrivals was a stout, heavily built young man with
one pair at each window. she stopped and smiled scornfully. sónya was
one quite at home, and from habit immediately lay down on the sofa, took
one reviews the past and plans for the future. prince andrew’s face
one seldom finds nowadays among our old men of twenty and, particularly,
“one step beyond that boundary line which resembles the line dividing
“one thing i ask of your excellency,” dólokhov said in his firm,
one.... whom, i ask you, can we rely on?... england with her commercial
one word after another, came through the open door. she was speaking as
one would have thought it impossible for a man to stretch himself
one would have to... the metropolitan himself... and even then it
one would not need finesse; and he tells me that i am lying—so let him
on her lips, she got up and left the room. all nicholas’ animation
on him by the doctors, clergy, and relatives of the family. prince
on himself. he could remain silent for hours without being at all put
on him. the empress’ chamberlain invited him to see her majesty. the
on his arm as if that touch might soothe or rouse him.
on his saber, and put on his cap.
on his seat, lowered his hands, moved a little to the right and then to
on his side of it.
on in his usual tone of indifference.
on kutúzov’s staff, among his fellow officers and in the army
onlookers for what was to follow. as soon as the provocatively gay
only by the elite.
only change being that the words “father kámenski” were replaced by
“only fools and rakes fall ill, my boy. you know me: i am busy from
only his eyes were brighter than usual.
“only take care you and your cossacks are not all captured!” said
only telling you what it is. napoleon has also formed his plan by now,
only that all the men of the day were mere babies who did not know the
“on my honor!”
on november 1 kutúzov had received, through a spy, news that the army
on october 11, 1805, one of the infantry regiments that had just reached
on october 11, the day when all was astir at headquarters over the news
on purpose to vex us. the archduke karl does nothing, the archduke
on reaching the village he dismounted and went to the nearest house,
on returning from the review, kutúzov took the austrian general into
on snowy-white smooth pillows, evidently freshly changed, pierre
on the arm of a colonel of hussars, a man of importance to them because
on the arm said:
“on the contrary,” he said, in a querulous and angry tone that
on the contrary it gave her an unnatural, and therefore unpleasant,
“on the contrary,” replied the prince, who had plainly become
on the evening of the last day’s march an order had been received that
on the french side, amid the groups with cannon, a cloud of smoke
on the high ground where the enemy was, the smoke of a cannon rose,
‘on the march’ it meant in greatcoats?” said he reproachfully to
on the morning of the day that the young couple were to arrive, princess
on the opposite side the enemy could be seen by the naked eye, and from
on the other an immense case containing icons, was brightly illuminated
on the other side, the children, tutors, and governesses. from behind
“on the same business. but you are damp! let me wring you out!”
on the soft springs of the carriage, he turned to prince andrew.
on the twenty-eighth of october kutúzov with his army crossed to the
on the way to his sister’s room, in the passage which connected one
on this high ground, shall withdraw the left flank under its cover, and
    * “on vous fera danser.”
on you. you complain of our separation. what then should i say, if i
“oooh! for christ’s sake let me alone!” cried the wounded man, but
opened the door which moved noiselessly and easily. she paused at the
opinion,” said she, turning to the young man who, having come quite
opinions, but you see what a capital, good-natured fellow i am.” and
opportunity to express his own views, as young people are fond of doing.
opposite, in front of which large masses of french were advancing.
opposite. pierre spoke little but examined the new faces, and ate a
ordered the horses to be harnessed. only those things he always kept
orderly by the shoulders and knocking him against the wall.
orderly, running behind the cart and fumbling in the back of it.
order not to lose his head and do foolish things he must not act on his
order of maria theresa on his neck and a black bandage round his head,
orders the sergeant to be arrested. come, you must own that this affair
orders to admit no more, but the porter was told to be sure to invite to
orders which showed that the russian troops, who had hitherto been
order to make borís’ better acquaintance, promised to come to dinner,
order. you are causing me to lose the fruits of a campaign. break
orlóv never gave such a dinner as ours will be!”
or prince vasíli. forty thousand serfs and millions of rubles! i know
or whether some other thought flitted across his dying brain, at any
other.”
other, awkwardly, like a child at a dancing lesson.
other before the service was concluded. pierre paid no more attention
other had ridden up to him.
other lady visitors were farther down. at the other end sat the count,
other officers. perhaps i ought not to have spoken before them, but i am
others...”
others.”
others appreciated prince hippolyte’s social tact in so agreeably
other’s hands, kissing them and pulling them away, and again began
other soldiers. he stood looking about him, when suddenly he heard a
others. “well, you old sinner,” she went on, turning to the count
other young ladies in begging natásha and nicholas, who were noted for
ought to know where they are, and must find them, because...”
“oui, madame,” replied he, looking around him.
our aid,” said kutúzov.
our dear count vrbna, goes to him for orders.”
our hearts are united by indissoluble bonds, my heart rebels against
our infantry were stationed there, and at the farthest point the
our men had begun firing. they were still firing, not at the cavalry
“our men have been wasting time.”
our people...”
    * ours.
“ours,” kissing his finger tips.
our turn next.”
out:
out about him.
out a notebook, hurriedly scribbled something in pencil, tore out the
out as a post horse, but still i must have a talk with you, catiche, a
out everyone has been enraptured by her? they say she is amazingly
out from behind the clouds, and the clear sound of the solitary shot
out her cambric handkerchief she began wiping her husband’s waistcoat.
out his notebook and, leaning on the cannon, sketched a plan of the
out in front of a platoon of grenadiers before whom lay a naked man. two
out like cords. “you are mad, i tell you. i won’t allow it.
out. mack loses a whole army, the archduke ferdinand and the archduke
out of countenance himself or making others uncomfortable, but as
out of this position; that here was the toulon that would lift him from
out the stinging and tormenting thoughts that confused his mind. “this
out until, at the first pause, the guests rise with a rustle of dresses
out whether she was considering what he had just said or whether she was
over a fire brigade of bonaparte’s, that will be another story and
over,” anna pávlovna continued. “the sovereigns will not be able to
over beamed with irrepressible delight.) “it’s in the emperor’s
overcome a certain secret sorrow that has been in my heart ever since
overflowed with animation and impulsiveness. to be an enthusiast had
“overflowing with amiability. his position has not turned his head
over his shoulder.
over his spectacles, and then again resuming his walk, muttering
overtaken by the enemy and fighting rearguard actions only as far as
over, the adjutant he had seen the previous day ceremoniously informed
over their heads, unstrapping their overcoats and drawing the sleeves on
owner of one of the largest fortunes in russia, i am much amused to
own ideas tonight, but must yield himself up entirely to the will of
pale, and added, “look at it, young man.”
pale face and glittering eyes.
pale, now blushed and strained every nerve to overhear what nicholas
“papa,” said his beautiful daughter in the same tone as before,
“papa, we shall be late,” said princess hélène, turning her
paper and her hand moved rapidly over it. this is the reply she wrote,
paper. he looked gloomily in rostóv’s face and said: “i am witing
papers and it was the first time he had heard villeneuve’s name.
papers and still taking no notice of the special messenger.
parade. however, i will let you know.”
parade... i am the first to apologize, you know me!... he was very
pardon. as soon as rostóv heard them, an enormous load of doubt
part. anna pávlovna schérer on the contrary, despite her forty years,
part from his horse, and at last sprang down and called to his orderly.
particular emphasis as if in it lay the gist of the matter.
particularly addicted), he regarded even this not as a defect but as a
particularly agreeable before going away. besides this he was
particularly on the word possible... “as po-o-ossible,” he ended,
particularly striking among all these drunken voices by its sober
     particularly victorious.”
passed out by a back door, but returned to their places one after the
passing between the companies that had been eating porridge and drinking
passing by kutúzov’s carriage and the exhausted saddle horses of
passionately once more to enjoy that dissipation he was so accustomed to
pass the three officers quite easily, but zherkóv, pushing nesvítski
past the company, and overtook the carriage, still keeping time to the
pathetic smile, as though she too knew that count rostóv deserved this
patroness. she added that her majesty had deigned to show baron funke
paul had exiled him to his country estate had lived there continuously
pause after this mot to give time for its due appreciation. “the
paused. “i am going because the life i am leading here does not suit
pausing. “the only question is what will come of the meeting between
pávlovna.
pávlovna: “educate this bear for me! he has been staying with me
pávlovna had had a cough for some days. she was, as she said, suffering
pávlovna, looking up pensively.
pávlovna’s hand and for some reason drawing it downwards. “arrange
pávlovna’s hand, and screwing up his eyes scanned the whole company.
pávlovna’s was the first he had attended in russia. he knew that all
peace. the old man was beside himself: moved the chair on which he was
pearls on their bare shoulders, looked at themselves in the brilliantly
peculiar form of beauty. everyone brightened at the sight of this pretty
peculiarly deliberate steps. this feeling of disdain was heightened
people and starting to join the army. you should have seen the state of
“people are always too clever with their eldest children and try to
people,” he went on, turning to anna pávlovna, “he ever was a hero,
people show to everyone when they are happy.
people were in one of the inner rooms, not considering it necessary to
perception befitting a man of the world, he indicated by a movement of
perform! prussia has always declared that buonaparte is invincible, and
“perhaps later on i may tell you, my dear boy, that if i had not been
perhaps, see and take part in the first russian encounter with the
“perhaps the count did not ask for me,” said pierre when he reached
“permit me, princess, to know what is necessary and what is not
personage he was referring to.
personally it would be a pleasure to hand over the supreme command
persons, among them the elderly lady and anna pávlovna, did however
petersburg, and had been expelled from there for riotous conduct and
petersburg. anna mikháylovna, with her tear-worn but pleasant face,
petersburg. but now this head was swaying helplessly with the uneven
petersburg—no one knows who will inherit his immense fortune, pierre
petersburg on the tenth of august, and her son, who had remained in
petersburg society was assembled there: people differing widely in age
petersburg to procure an appointment in the guards for her only son.
pétya! good man!” cried he, addressing pierre.
pe vell. and ve must discuss it as little as po-o-ossible”... he dwelt
philosophizing voice with pleasure.
pick up the glove himself and to pass round the doctors who were not
piercingly. seeing prince andrew she leaned out from behind the apron
pierre.
pierre.
pierre, after all, had not managed to choose a career for himself in
pierre and himself was in the room, and addressed her in a tone of
pierre at the age of ten had been sent abroad with an abbé as tutor,
pierre could not make out what it was all about, and still less what
pierre did not understand a word, but the conviction that all this had
pierre drank one glass after another, looking from under his brows at
pierre gave her an inquiring look. she kissed the young man on his
pierre had been educated abroad, and this reception at anna
pierre had come just at dinnertime and was sitting awkwardly in the
pierre had taken part in tying a policeman to a bear. he had now been
pierre, having made up his mind to obey his monitress implicitly, moved
pierre heard her say:
pierre. he went up to him, took his hand (a thing he never used to do),
pierre. it seemed to him that more than half an hour had elapsed.
pierre listened to the colonel’s speech and nodded approvingly.
pierre looked at her over his spectacles.
pierre looked at his friend and, noticing that he did not like the
pierre looked over his spectacles with naïve surprise, now at him and
pierre looked questioningly at anna mikháylovna to see what he was to
pierre murmured something unintelligible, and continued to look round as
“pierre, my dear, come here. i think he will not be out of place in a
pierre, not knowing whom to answer, looked at them all and smiled. his
pierre reaching the house first went into prince andrew’s study like
pierre rose to help him.
pierre rubbed his forehead.
pierre sat down with his little partner. natásha was perfectly happy;
pierre sat up on the sofa, with his legs tucked under him.
pierre saw that borís wished to change the subject, and being of the
pierre seized the crossbeam, tugged, and wrenched the oak frame out with
pierre’s eyes.
pierre’s hand to show that there was no need to ask the question. he
“pierre!” she said.
pierre shook his head and arms as if attacked by mosquitoes or bees.
pierre’s legitimation? do you understand that in consideration of the
pierre smiled in his good-natured way as if afraid for his companion’s
pierre’s mind was in such a confused state that the word “stroke”
pierre’s outburst anna pávlovna, despite her social experience, was
pierre’s remarks, rose and made a sign to his wife that it was time to
pierre, the one who had behaved so improperly at anna pávlovna’s
pierre threw off his cloak and entered the first room, in which were the
pierre took off his spectacles, which made his face seem different and
pierre turned his whole body, making the sofa creak. he lifted his eager
pierre understood nothing of all this and coloring shyly looked in
pierre was evident. she kept an anxious watch on him when he approached
pierre, was only busy causing him annoyance.
pierre was silent.
pierre was sitting in the drawing room where shinshín had engaged him,
pierre was staying at prince vasíli kurágin’s and sharing the
pierre was still afraid that this officer might inadvertently say
pierre was ungainly. stout, about the average height, broad, with huge
pierre was very fond of.
pierre well knew this large room divided by columns and an arch, its
pierre well remembered this small circular drawing room with its mirrors
pierre went in at the door, stepping on the soft carpet, and noticed
pierre went out.
pierre, who had been growing more and more agitated as he listened to
pierre who has inherited all the property and has besides been
pierre, who was lagging behind, to follow. though he did not see why it
pillows one at a time and shaking them.
pineapple ice. before the ices, champagne was served round. the band
pitied. she has no one, no one. to tell the truth, i don’t need her,
pity for me. why is it?”
place and everything waiting for him in the archives department! isn’t
placed a chair for her.
placed them on the window sill, though it was already quite light.
places. then the strains of the count’s household band were replaced
place! we passed close to the park and saw two deer... and what a
placing the bottle on the window sill where he could reach it easily,
plain that she understood nothing and was so frightened that her
plan chimerical.
player, in spite of the burden of his equipment, rushed out to the front
playing with the ball of worsted as a kitten should.
play. involuntarily he felt a joyful agitation at the thought of the
pleasant smile, as if it were obvious to him that his success must
pleasant smile—his eyelids drooping more than half over his old eyes,
“please, andrew, for my sake!...”
“please be quick,” he said.
pleased!” and he held out his hand to the captain.
“please, denísov, let me lend you some: i have some, you know,”
pleased to take me as an aide-de-camp....”
pleased with.
“please have a look at it”—and kutúzov with an ironical smile
please make way!”
“please, your excellency, for god’s sake!” he kept saying,
pleasure and listened to the conversation of his two neighbors, whom he
pleasure at the sound of the singing and the sight of the dancing
pleasure to herself and to all around her. “i have brought my work,”
pocket and that’s quite simple and is no one else’s business.”
pocket of his riding breeches, with his eyebrows lifted and his mouth
point.”
point. ask denísov whether it is not out of the question for a cadet to
pointing to nicholas, “his friend borís has become an officer, and
police tried to interfere, and what did the young men do? they tied
politeness and affected sympathy of which indifference and even irony
politeness and to start conversation, they asked him a few questions
politeness modestly placed himself at the disposal of the circle in
political events.
poorer than the poorest beggar. a thousand thanks, dear friend, for the
poor resources i have for entertaining a woman used to the best society.
porch. his landlord, who in a waistcoat and a pointed cap, pitchfork in
porch. prince andrew got out of the carriage, helped his little wife to
portfolio.
portfolio, and changed her grip.
portfolio she held in her hand. “all i know is that his real will is
portfolio were the only sounds audible, but it was evident that if
portmanteau into the vehicle, “we are to move on still farther. the
portrait (evidently by the hand of the artist belonging to the estate)
position. he made some notes on two points, intending to mention them to
position is now a terrible one,” continued anna mikháylovna, sadly,
position now, peter nikoláevich...”
position of that insignificant individual was such as could certainly
position of the army reached him as he went along, and the appearance of
possessor of the finest fortune in russia. it is rumored that prince
possible. god preserve us from that terrible misfortune!
possible. his conversation was always sprinkled with wittily original,
possible. kutúzov himself with all his transport took the road to
posted on a rather steep incline which dominated the french position.
posted, two men appeared on horse back. they were an aide-de-camp
posting date: january 10, 2009 [ebook #2600]
potëmkins or suvórovs left to oppose him; but he was also convinced
pour vous. *(2) only a hobbledehoy could amuse himself in this
powder,” said prince andrew banteringly yet tenderly.
power.”
powerful nation like russia—barbaric as she is said to be—to place
prancing horse had splashed mud over some foot soldiers.
prater... true, we have no prater here...”
prayed that the daily interview might pass off well.
prearranged sentence.
preening its plumage and became motionless.
pregnant,” said prince andrew, following every movement of his
prejudices, and equality of citizenship, and all these ideas napoleon
prepare a circular, memorandum, or report, skillfully, pointedly, and
prepared to continue, but just then anna pávlovna, who had kept a
presence, i will teach you to behave yourself.”
presented he was as little able as his father to change his opinion. he
present i am free and am all right. only i haven’t the least idea what
present, suddenly pushed forward with a scared and angry look and wanted
preserved all that was good in it—equality of citizenship and freedom
preserve his gravity.
pressed two fingers more and more rigidly to his cap, as if in this
pressure lay his only hope of salvation.
pretending to do something real. prince andrew gaily bore with his
pretense of helping, was in everyone’s way.
pretext. the fact is he has come to see count cyril vladímirovich,
prevented her from going on with it.
pride. “that lawsuit taught me much. when i want to see one of those
priests; “all we relatives have been in such anxiety. this young
prince.
prince.”
prince. and god only knows where your man peter is,” said the other
prince andrew.
prince andrew and his sister, hand in hand, kissed one another, and
prince andrew, beginning to understand that his news of the battle
prince andrew bowed his head in token of having understood from the
prince andrew caught him by the hand.
prince andrew could not understand.
prince andrew during the battle had been in attendance on the austrian
prince andrew, evidently confused. “i know that out of a million
prince andrew felt that either the actions of kutúzov’s army
prince andrew followed her with a courteous but sad expression.
prince andrew frowned again, expressing his annoyance with whoever was
prince andrew gazed with anxious curiosity at that impassive face
prince andrew glanced again at the artillery officer’s small figure.
prince andrew glanced at kutúzov’s face only a foot distant from him
prince andrew had gone out into the hall, and, turning his shoulders
prince andrew, having reached the front line, rode along it. our front
prince andrew, his face distorted with fury, rode up to him and raised
prince andrew kept looking with an amused smile from pierre to the
prince andrew knew how to take his stand so that they respected and even
prince andrew looked anna pávlovna straight in the face with a
prince andrew looked inquiringly at him and gave no reply.
prince andrew looked kindly at him, yet his glance—friendly and
prince andrew looked sternly at her and an expression of anger suddenly
prince andrew moved toward the door from whence voices were heard.
prince andrew nodded to him. he still looked ahead while prince andrew
prince andrew only shrugged his shoulders at pierre’s childish words.
prince andrew replied. then followed other questions just as simple:
prince andrew riding up to the officer.
prince andrew rose, shrugged his shoulders, and walked about the room.
prince andrew saw that the officer was in that state of senseless,
prince andrew’s calm manner of treating everybody, his extraordinary
prince andrew screwed up his eyes and turned away. pierre, who from
prince andrew, seeing that his father insisted, began—at first
prince andrew shrugged his shoulders.
prince andrew sighed and made no reply.
prince andrew’s joyous feeling was considerably weakened as he
prince andrew smiled.
prince andrew smiled as he looked at his sister, as we smile at those we
prince andrew smiled involuntarily as he looked at the artillery officer
prince andrew smiled ironically.
prince andrew stayed at brünn with bilíbin, a russian acquaintance of
prince andrew stood right in front of kutúzov but the expression of
prince andrew stopped short.
prince andrew. they had known each other previously in petersburg, but
prince andrew told his driver to stop, and asked a soldier in what
prince andrew was one of those rare staff officers whose chief interest
prince andrew was silent, but the princess noticed the ironical and
prince andrew was surveying the position, was the easiest and most
prince andrew was to leave next evening. the old prince, not altering
prince andrew when he drove up to the palace felt even more vigorous and
prince andrew, who had evidently wished to tone down the awkwardness of
prince andrew without lifting his eyes rode hastily away from the
“prince auersperg is on this, on our side of the river, and is
prince bagratión, having reached the highest point of our right flank,
prince bagratión rode an officer of the suite, the prince’s personal
prince bagratión screwed up his eyes, looked round, and, seeing the
prince, but could not get it quite right.)
prince hippolyte approached the little princess and, bending his face
prince hippolyte, having brought the workbag, joined the circle and
prince hippolyte hurriedly put on his cloak, which in the latest fashion
prince hippolyte was lolling in a lounge chair with his legs over its
prince hippolyte, who had been gazing at the vicomte for some time
prince? how priceless are those last moments! it can make things no
“prince, humanum est errare, * but...” replied the doctor,
prince, she prepared to listen.
prince’s household. general in chief prince nicholas andréevich
princess and prince vasíli, recovering themselves, followed her. a few
princess, and stared fixedly at her through his eyeglass.
princess anna mikháylovna intervened in the conversation, evidently
“princess drubetskáya to see prince vasíli sergéevich,” he called
“princesse, au revoir,” cried he, stumbling with his tongue as well
princesses, sat in a corner knitting a stocking. pierre had never been
princesses spent most of their time, he greeted the ladies, two of whom
princesses was coming to take her turn at watching. “let us go.”
princess’ face. she took it quickly and bent her head over it.
princess had been crying after dinner and had spoken of her forebodings
princess hélène, prince vasíli’s daughter, and the little princess
princess. i am at your command.’ yes, he is a fine fellow and a very
“princess, i must warn you,” she added, lowering her voice and
princess, looking at anna mikháylovna as at a stranger.
princess mary could not understand the boldness of her brother’s
princess mary did not listen to the end, but continuing her train of
princess mary looked at her brother in surprise. she did not understand
princess mary rose and moved to the door, then stopped and said:
princess mary was first surprised and then aghast at this question.
princess mary went back to her room with the sad, scared expression that
princess never saw the beautiful expression of her own eyes—the look
princess’ room, a carriage containing pierre (who had been sent for)
princess rose. “it’s now two o’clock and you dine at four. there
princess suddenly, her pretty face all at once distorted by a tearful
princess, turning away and continuing to read. but julie did not flatter
princess went in with the drink she had prepared according to
princess with a pleased smile, as to an intimate acquaintance.
princess with the expression women assume when they suppose they are
prince’s things in my bedroom,” said he to the servant who was
prince to get up, tíkhon came to call the young prince to his father.
prince vasíli always spoke languidly, like an actor repeating a stale
prince vasíli and the eldest princess were sitting close together
“prince vasíli arrived in moscow yesterday. i hear he has come on
prince vasíli became thoughtful and frowned. anna mikháylovna saw that
prince vasíli bent his head and spread out his hands.
prince vasíli came next. he staggered to the sofa on which pierre was
prince vasíli did not reply, though, with the quickness of memory and
prince vasíli kept the promise he had given to princess drubetskáya
prince vasíli looked questioningly at the princess, but could not make
prince vasíli rose. “oh!” said he with reproach and surprise,
prince vasíli said no more and his cheeks began to twitch nervously,
prince vasíli saw the princess off. she held a handkerchief to her eyes
prince vasíli’s daughter, the beautiful hélène, came to take her
prince vasíli’s face so out of keeping with his dignity that pierre
prince vasíli smiled.
“prince vasíli’s son, he, and a certain dólokhov have, it is said,
prince vasíli stared at her and at borís questioningly and perplexed.
prince vasíli was seated in an easy chair in his familiar attitude,
prince vasíli wished to obtain this post for his son, but others were
private and had not seen fit to recognize him. but now that kutúzov had
privilege of admiring her beautiful figure and shapely shoulders,
“probably,” said prince andrew moving toward the outer door.
probably think it easy to gain victories!” he thought. his eyes
probably to strengthen the front line. the smoke of the first shot had
problems in higher mathematics, turning snuffboxes on a lathe, working
proceeding as usual. denísov, who had been losing at cards all night,
produced an effect she glanced at anna pávlovna, at once adopted just
progress. would you believe it, i have literally not a penny and don’t
projects for peace, a secret peace concluded separately.”
prominent gray eyes. then she shook her head and glanced up at the icons
promised? nothing! and what little they have promised they will not
promised not to forget him, distinguished him above the other adjutants,
promise of rising in his diplomatic career. he was still a young man but
promise to prince andrew was of no account, because before he gave it
promotion.
promotion...”
proper, and regular motion. but amid these cares her anxiety about
prospect of spending an evening with a poor invalid is not too terrible,
proverb says,” remarked shinshín, moving his pipe to the other side
p.s. let me have news of your brother and his charming little wife.
puckering up his face though smiling, and showing his short strong
pulling him by the chain and trying to set him at the others.
purse.
purse and, drawing its rings aside with his small, white, turned-up
purse undah the pillow,” he said, and went out to the quartermaster.
pursued by the french army of a hundred thousand men under the command
pushed back in the sitting room where the count and márya dmítrievna
pushed the guns and wagons themselves. whips cracked, hoofs slipped,
put a little aside and to send something to my father,” he went on,
put it in a carriage, and set off with it to visit some actresses! the
put it off. perhaps god will help me to find a way to prepare him!...
putting them down. when they’ve been put down, the war with buonaparte
puzzled the devil himself! when you get there you’ll find out what
quartermaster for the money.”
quartermaster’s presence.
quarter of an hour between two fires.”
quarters and riding up to captain timókhin who was walking in front.
quarters near braunau, where they hoped to receive boots and clothes and
queer,” he added after a pause, “that you should have suspected
“qu’ est-ce qu’il chante?” * asked a frenchman.
questioned prince andrew about the details of his interview with the
questions of health, sometimes in russian and sometimes in very bad but
questions that might be put to him and the answers he would give. he
quick.
quickly as possible.
quickly. prince bagratión, uttering his words with an oriental accent,
quickly roused himself with a feeling of joy, as if learning afresh that
quickly turned away, a scarcely perceptible smile flitting over his
quick or the enemy will bring up his guns to use grapeshot.”
quietly and humorously how he had known that doll mimi when she was
quietly and said in a whisper: “please walk in.”
quilt. the eyes and face of the sick man showed impatience. he made an
quite astonishing. how did you get things settled? i couldn’t possibly
quite certain. ah! it is very dreadful...”
quite mistaken if you reckon me or my mother among such people. we are
quite opposite reputations. some, a minority, acknowledged him to be
quite remember how, but don’t you remember that it could all be
“quite right,” said the englishman.
quite true; he had been indebted to her father for the first steps in
“quite well? all right then, sit down.” he took the exercise book
quivering in his breast and a tickling in his nose, and tears dimmed his
quoting one of his own mots, releasing the wrinkles on his forehead, and
radiantly on her beautiful face. pierre gazed at her with rapturous,
rage, “who are you? are you in command here? eh? i am commander here,
railings. he looked back laughing to the cossack who stood a few
raising his eyebrows.
raising his soft foot backwards, bowing his perspiring head, smiling
ran forward on each such occasion, fearing to miss a single word of the
range and wipe them out?” these were the questions each man of the
rank and importance, who was the first to arrive at her reception. anna
rank—“i thank you for myself and for our two dear ones whose name
ranks.
ranks in this regiment.”
ran rapidly over the wide space, but he only saw that the hitherto
rapidity. he again vividly recalled the details of the battle, no longer
rapid retreat. austrian troops that had escaped capture at ulm and had
rarely left her and which made her plain, sickly face yet plainer. she
rascality....”
rate he glanced at the refractory arm, at pierre’s terror-stricken
rather confine ourselves to studying those sublime rules which our
rather short, as if surprised that anyone should not know him.
ratify it; but it is only a trick. march on, destroy the russian
rattle on the bridge as if nuts were being spilt, and the hussar nearest
rays of gentle light shone from her large, timid eyes. those eyes lit
reached bagratión, the weighty tread of the mass of men marching in
reached to his very heels, and, stumbling in it, ran out into the porch
reaching the large house near the horse guards’ barracks, in which
“read this if you like, father,” said the princess, blushing still
ready to embrace the countess at the appropriate moment.
really all the same to me when my son’s fate is at stake.” the
really...” but he did not say what “it really” was. “for the
“really i don’t care about that, i don’t care at all,” said
“really, i don’t yet know. i don’t like either the one or the
“really, truly!” answered natásha, pushing in a crisp lock that had
real state of french public opinion.”
reappeared.
reason for rejoicing, they looked at each other with joyful delight and
reason of her friend’s sorrow, “i’m sure véra has said something
reasons for buonaparte’s hatred of him.
recalling bilíbin’s words.
received.
received as a savior.”
received. a thanksgiving service was arranged, kutúzov was awarded
received by the emperor. had you heard?”
received him with distinction and special marks of favor, explaining to
received was shown him. a strange lady, the one who had been talking to
reception.
reception hall: michael ivánovich, mademoiselle bourienne, princess
recognized as legitimate; so that he is now count bezúkhov and
recognized him and stopped to listen to what he was saying. dólokhov
recognizes his high vocation and will be true to it. that is the one
recommended to the empress) and at the same time to console him, so she
recruiting. none of them had yet seen the manifesto, but they all knew
red hands; he did not know, as the saying is, how to enter a drawing
red patches appeared on princess mary’s face and she was silent as if
red. several battalions of soldiers, in their shirt sleeves despite
refined french in which our grandfathers not only spoke but thought, and
reform by marrying him to prince andrew’s sister.
regarding him with a smile of approbation.
regard to this project of marriage for me, i will tell you, dear sweet
regimental commander cooling down a little. “leave indeed.... one says
regimental commander hung his head, silently shrugged his shoulders, and
regimental commander, overtaking the third company on its way to its
regimental commander was nicknamed king of hearts).
regiment, and bogdánich knows it. oh, we do prize it, old fellow! and
regiment but was not liked; rostóv especially detested him and was
regiment had been broken up. all he knew was that at the commencement
regiment had just the appearance of any russian regiment preparing for
regiment—instead of the straggling, disorderly crowd it had been on
regiment next to no time, my lad, you’re here today and tomorrow
regiment, saying he was not such a fool as to slave at the front when he
regret. drawing rooms, gossip, balls, vanity, and triviality—these are
regret her words. but she went on hurriedly:
regularity in his household was carried to the highest point of
regular order.
reinforce the right flank. the officer of the suite ventured to remark
rejects all knowledge that does not come from him; and the less we seek
relating to the condition of the troops on their arrival, and the
relays.
reluctantly, but gradually with more and more animation, and from habit
remained on the farther side of the bridge facing the enemy, who could
remains of supper. a footman, thinking no one saw him, was drinking on
remain stationary in face of an enemy eight times as strong as itself.
remarked. “well, sit down: let’s have a talk.”
remarks at him, though without looking at him.
remembered it three months before, when the count had sent him to
remember how we and nicholas, all three of us, talked in the sitting
“remember that you will answer for the consequences,” said prince
repeated from the opening words of the manifesto:
repeating the terms of the bet, addressing himself particularly to
repeating the terms of the wager to him in english.
repeating to himself at each alternate step, “left... left...
repented and added: “i am glad; really, dear, i am very glad.”
replied.
replied, “and it is that he would be merciful to him and would allow
replied, and the four simply looked at one another. she lingered in the
replied borís, betraying neither annoyance at the prince’s brusque
replied prince vasíli.
reply.
reply to his look, and went still faster along the passage.
report, and began deliberately to examine the whole battlefield extended
reports from our scouts. here are two letters from count nostitz and
reports one after another, and a third.
reports that prince auersperg was defending vienna?” he said.
representative but one of the great century, and that it is his own
reproached him for not having stayed at the palace, and offered him
repulsed, he had lost more than half his men. he said the attack
required papers. kutúzov and the austrian member of the hofkriegsrath
rescue. pierre had managed to start a conversation with the abbé about
resolute in the discharge of duty, ran out and touching pierre lightly
resolved not to be the first to break silence, if she had to wait till
resounded on the planks of the bridge, and the squadron, officers in
respected and feared her.
respectfully when the military governor, having stayed about half an
respect, he had decided that it would be a good thing to set fire to the
responsibility. but circumstances are sometimes too strong for us,
responsibility of that deed.”
rest, and then...”
rested on prince andrew’s face.
resting, and to halt facing vienna with znaim to his rear, and if he
restrained animation as he stood sipping tea from a delicate chinese
restraining her angry tears.
resumed her duties as hostess and continued to listen and watch, ready
resumed its former cold, artificial expression. she returned to the
retreat to the dip by echelons.” so he reasoned.... all the time
     return.”
returned from them dragging sheep, fowls, hay, and bulging sacks. at
returned to moscow and went straight to her rich relations, the
returned to petersburg quite crestfallen.
returning his smile.
returning to his hobby; “tell me how the germans have taught you to
returning to the town. the commander in chief made a sign that the
return to her the whole evening.
reverence and was beyond question.
revoir! ”—and she left the hall.
revolution, which has become more terrible than ever in the person of
rich?”
riding a fine bobtailed horse, and a civilian—an accountant who had
rid them of the bourbons and because they saw that he was a great
right across the skull. having said this he glanced at natásha.
right hand, which was lying palm downwards, a wax taper had been thrust
right light.... in my opinion perpetual peace is possible but—i do not
rightly supposes that matters have already gone too far. i think it will
right. selfish, vain, stupid, trivial in everything—that’s what
right—serve him. nicholas bolkónski’s son need not serve under
rights of man, is sentenced to...” but before pierre—who at that
ring, cried from the window: “come here; part the bets!” this was
ringing, deliberate voice. “i ask an opportunity to atone for my fault
risen and was going toward his room.
rite which everyone expected of him, and that he was therefore bound
river flowed was formed by the rising ground only half a mile away.
rivulet flowed, the soul-stirring rolling and crackling of musketry was
road. bagratión’s exhausted and hungry detachment, which alone
rode past the limbers to the farthest cannon.
rolled softly over the straw beneath the windows, anna mikháylovna,
rolling them up. márya dmítrievna always spoke in russian.
roof lit up by the sun? no one knows, but one wants to know. you fear
rook—a handsome horse despite its game leg—had the happy air of a
room after supper? why, we settled how everything was to be. i don’t
room. all were silent.
room and still less how to leave one; that is, how to say something
room. denísov silently watched lavrúshka’s movements, and when the
room, grew silent and gazed with eyes full of curiosity or expectancy at
room,” he said.
room. no one spoke and the only sounds heard were the clatter of knives
room. the countess reflected a moment and took a pinch from a gold
room. the prince stood still; his lively glittering eyes from under
room to write to his father, to whom he wrote every day. in the corridor
room, where you will be ranged side by side with a court lackey and an
room with a look of alarm. between twelve and two o’clock, as the
room without a word. but at the door he stopped and then retraced his
room with the inkstand in her hand.
rose and with her heavy tread went up to the table. she took a sheet of
rose, by a glance inviting pierre, who sat opposite, to listen to what
rose from an ensign and became emperor. well, well, god grant it,” he
rostóv, absorbed by his relations with bogdánich, had paused on the
rostóv, and sighing deeply he took rook, his horse, which stood resting
rostóv did not speak.
rostóv did not think what this call for stretchers meant; he ran on,
rostóv felt denísov’s gaze fixed on him, raised his eyes, and
rostóv, growing red and pale alternately, looked first at one officer
rostóv heard.
rostóv, his eyes avoiding denísov, began buttoning his coat, buckled
rostóv’s and back, and back again and again in an instant.
rostóv saw nothing but the hussars running all around him, their spurs
rostóv shrugged his shoulders as much as to say: “nor do i, but
rostóvs, with whom she stayed when in the town and where her darling
rostóv thrust the purse under the pillow and shook the damp little hand
rostóv took the money and, mechanically arranging the old and new coins
rostóv took the money, avoiding telyánin’s eyes, and went out of the
rostóv took the purse in his hand, examined it and the money in it, and
rostóv waved his cap above his head like the german and cried laughing,
rostóv went to telyánin’s quarters.
rostóv wiping his muddy hands on his breeches looked at his enemy and
rostóv, without returning home, took a horse and rode there. there was
rosy, was sitting in an easy chair with her work in her hands, talking
round and clapping rostóv on the shoulder with his big hand.
round and notices here a spindle that has stopped or there one that
round an open window. three others were romping with a young bear, one
round márya dmítrievna, now on his toes, now on his heels; until,
round-shouldered captain túshin, stumbling over the tail of the gun
round the two corners of the mouth; this, together with the resolute,
“rousseau’s contrat social,” said the vicomte with a tolerant
rows of faces so alike yet so different, holding its breath while the
rows of statues in niches) and looking significantly at the lady’s old
royalist emigrant.
rubbing his bald head and angrily pulling back toward him the little
rubles a year? and,” he went on after a pause, “what will it be in
rubles, dólokhov lived with him and had placed himself on such a
rum without taking it from my mouth, sitting outside the window on this
running into sónya’s room and not finding her there, natásha ran to
running to the door and the noise of a chair falling over, and a girl
rushed out apparently beside herself with delight.
rushing at the cadet to restrain him.
rush to obey the summons. “send dmítri to me!”
russian army found vent in anger at zherkóv’s untimely jest.
     russian army, i must say that your victory was not
russian army loots terribly—her army is destroyed, her capital
russian army will be fully equipped, and shall then, in conjunction with
russian bath. the movement of these wrinkles formed the principal play
russian musketeer who had gone up to the picket line with an officer and
russian on which he wished to put a contemptuous emphasis.
russians fought, the only consequence of these actions was a yet more
russians from krems to znaim.
russian troops and their commander of the laurels they have been
russian troops were crossing the river enns. at midday the russian
russia were settling near the fortress of braunau and burdening the
saber which had caught in his cloak. it was an old-fashioned saber of
sacrament, allow him a moment’s peace! here, pierre, tell them your
sacrament. the dying man lay as lifeless and immovable as before. around
sacrificed everything for his sake!” she cried. “it’s splendid!
sacrificed myself. but only the base, the vile succeed! i know who has
saddle, he galloped to the other flank of the squadron and shouted in
sadness, and this occurred every time she mentioned her illustrious
sad voice, as if saying: “very well, finish me off.”
said.
said:
said a tall, grizzly-haired staff captain, with enormous mustaches and
said bilíbin as he came out to meet prince andrew. “franz, put the
said dólokhov.
said he.
said he. “now for trouble!” rostóv looked out of the window and
said it, and they all felt awkward.
said prince andrew, as he entered the study, rubbing his small white
said prince andrew who had not yet had time to eat anything.
said rostóv, blushing.
said rostóv in an imploring voice, “but i can’t apologize, by god i
said she in french, displaying her bag and addressing all present.
said she, uttering the word with peculiar assurance and unconcern, “i
said shinshín, laughing ironically and mixing the most ordinary russian
said: “that’s bad! go on, go on.”
said the countess. “but i am in great need of this sum.”
said the general, turning to an artillery officer. “have a little fun
said: “then i will go to my rooms. you will let me know when i can see
said the old soldier dismally to a comrade, “you’ll forget to
said the princess, ignoring his question. “now i know! yes; if i have
said to her, went to the looking glass and arranged her hair and scarf.
said yesterday... let him grow up with you.... please.”
said zherkóv.
sake that the latter might say something he would afterwards regret.
same!”
same?”
same expression, which seemed to say that he had a right to suppose
same firm pressure of the hand and the same quick, repeated bows. as
same mind he began explaining the advantages and disadvantages of the
same!” pierre often indulged in reflections of this sort, nullifying
same state of excitement as when she had slammed the door of her room.
same time felt shy.
same. you’ll be all right anywhere. but look here: give up visiting
sang the quartette, “the brook,” with which everyone was delighted.
sarcastic smile.
sat down at her writing table, on which stood miniature portraits and
satisfaction.
satisfied with him?” he asked the regimental commander.
sat up and began wiping her eyes and explaining.
sat waiting for something, and again soldiers straggling from their
sausages and a bottle of wine.
saviour’s words, that it is easier for a camel to go through the
saw—covered to the waist by a bright green quilt—the familiar,
saw denísov coming home. denísov was a small man with a red face,
saw friendly looks and heard friendly words. yesterday’s adjutant
saw his smile, which said nothing, unless perhaps, “opinions are
say.
saying.
saying, and sat plunged in thought. five minutes later, gently swaying
saying something witty and stinging.
saying that the russian ladies are not equal to the french? one has to
saying this he again turned round, dropped his hands, took the bottle
say something but could not. her brother had guessed right: the little
say that there are only two sources of human vice—idleness and
scabbard and flourishing it.
sca’cwow? call the quahtehmasteh,” he shouted to lavrúshka.
scarred and puffy face.
schérer.”
schérer, maid of honor and favorite of the empress márya fëdorovna.
schönbrunn, 25th brumaire, 1805,
“schon fleissig?” * said rostóv with the same gay brotherly smile
schoolboy called up before a large audience for an examination in which
“schubert, the colonel of the pávlograd hussars, is dining with us
scoundrel is again at our heels!”
scoundrel? is that how you look at it? we don’t see it like that. and
scratch from one paragraph to another with his hard nail.
scratch yourself.”
screams, continued.
screams kept repeating:
screwing up his eyes and shaking with suppressed laughter, and unable
search of somebody and answered all her questions in monosyllables. he
seat.
    second epilogue
“second line... have you written it?” he continued dictating to the
secretary of the russian embassy, do not feel any need in token of my
sedate, and the naïveté of his youthful egotism was so obvious, that
see his face. anna mikháylovna left him, and when she returned he was
“see how smart she’s made herself! oh, the devils!”
see how these nestlings are growing up,” and she pointed to the girls.
seeing anna mikháylovna and her son, prince vasíli dismissed the
seem.
seemed confused and blushed as if not knowing what to say.
seemed loaded with a whole houseful of effects. a fine brindled cow with
seemed ready to lift its tail, jump down on its soft paws, and begin
seemed to be poles—all under the russian crown—but here they’re
seemed to be seeking something, and soldiers dragging doors, benches,
seemed to groan at the terrible impact.
seemed to hear left... left... left.
seemed to him that bogdánich rode so near in order to show him his
seemed to me to have an excellent heart, and that is the quality i value
seemed to wish, but to be unable, to diminish its effect.
seeming to grow suddenly smaller, and respectfully received the blessing
seen him since we acted together at the rumyántsovs’ theatricals. i
seen. prince andrew stopped and began examining the position.
seen. the lines of that mouth were remarkably finely curved. the middle
see the soldiers’ shaggy caps, distinguish the officers from the men,
see whether it was firmly plaited, and grasping his by the hand. “the
see you,” he added, bowing his head.
self-confidence, while his body was thin and weak. his eyes, nose, and
self-confident french; then again, like a man weary but unflinching in
self-satisfied.
self-satisfied, youthful, and constant smile of animation, and by the
“sell me the missis,” said another soldier, addressing the german,
“semën! do you know the daniel cooper?”
sensation of fear and respect which the old man inspired in all around
sentiments,” he seemed to be saying, “so much the worse for you!”
sent instead of our dear wintzingerode you would have captured the king
sent to moscow. the story told about him at count rostóv’s was true.
sent you. religious! i don’t interfere with anyone’s belief... i
separately through his thin compressed lips, “i will throw him down
separation! though i tell myself that half my life and half my happiness
sergeant in charge of the cannon which was to give the signal to fire
sergeant was carrying in a wooden bowl to an officer who sat on a log
seriousness of his stupid smile, could not but give him a moment’s
serious tone, “but the prince told me to ‘go and tell the colonel
servants say in a frightened whisper. “catch hold from underneath.
servants with lanterns were bustling about in the porch. the immense
serve him. rostóv patted the horse’s neck and then his flank, and
service. a little behind them stood the two younger princesses holding
service... it can’t be helped... one is sometimes a bit hasty on
serving our tsar and our country, rejoicing in the successes and
set off to rejoin the army, not knowing where he would find it and
setting it on fire and the french batteries were now firing at them, no
setting, on a finely wrought silver chain.
settled down comfortably beside the fire.
settled into three groups. one, chiefly masculine, had formed round
“settled!” replied borís.
set without whom my wife cannot exist, and those women.... if you only
seven in the morning but had not reached it by five in the afternoon.”
“seven new and three old imperials.”
severely. “you don’t wish to apologize, but, man, it’s not only to
severity. the dance grew livelier and livelier. the other couples could
shading his eyes with his small hand.
shadow of the wall. pausing for a moment, pierre noticed several other
shako on the back of his head. he came up to the porch gloomily, hanging
shall reproach my wife with anything, and i cannot reproach myself
“shall we have time to change clothes?”
share defeat and disgrace with kutúzov’s whole army.”
sharply, with a slight trembling of the lower jaw, “i can’t prevent
shawl had been adjusted he kept his arm around her for a long time, as
she added hurriedly. “no, don’t be angry, but promise! i have asked
she added, turning to her hostess. “you wrote that it was to be quite
she became still more animated and chattered away giving him greetings
she began to smile and talk. he asked about mutual acquaintances, and
she brought into princess mary’s strenuous, mournful, and gloomy
she came up fearless and gay to kiss her hand. “i know she’s a scamp
she caught the young officer by his cuffs, and a look of solemnity and
she crossed herself, kissed the icon, and handed it to andrew.
shed, and its tone was so sincere that he could not but listen.
she faltered. “you are on good terms with michael ilariónovich
she felt guilty.
she gave her companion an angry glance.
she grew confused, glanced round, and, seeing the doll she had thrown
she had a fan in her hand that one of the ladies had given her to hold.
she had been married during the previous winter, and being pregnant did
she had finished speaking to him, and now he continued to speak to
she had first entered the room—the smile of a perfectly beautiful
she had just vacated. “you have made the place warm, i must say,” he
she had learned it) she talked with her partner, fanning herself and
she had spoken to hippolyte in the drawing room and which was so plainly
she has a brother; i think you know him, he married lise meinen lately.
she hurriedly ascended the narrow dimly lit stone staircase, calling to
she led him into the dark drawing room and pierre was glad no one could
“she let the hawk fly upward from her wide right sleeve,” went the
she looked round and seeing that her friend was not in the room ran to
she looked timidly at her brother.
shelters with merry chatter and laughter; around the fires sat others,
she moved toward anna pávlovna. hélène was so lovely that not only
she must be on the chest in the passage. the chest in the passage was
“she needs rest,” said prince andrew with a frown. “don’t you,
she pushed the little dog off her lap and smoothed her dress.
she rose and smoothed her hair, which was as usual so extremely smooth
“she said.... oh yes! she said, ‘girl,’ to the maid, ‘put on a
she said, trying to smile though tears were in her eyes.
she seemed that day to be more than ever kind and affectionate to
she smiled as she uttered his pet name, “andrúsha.” it was
she suddenly paused, smiling at her own impetuosity.
she took a pair of pear-shaped ruby earrings from her huge reticule and,
she took his arm and with a happy face went with him into the adjoining
she tried to pass anna mikháylovna, but the latter sprang so as to bar
she turned away and gave her hand to the count, who could hardly keep
she turned away from him and glanced at her younger brother, who was
she turned to go, but he stopped her with a gesture and took an uncut
she understood all the gravity of her friend’s trouble.
(she used the word “diplomat,” which was just then much in vogue
she was dancing with a grown-up man, who had been abroad. she was
“she was so tired that she has fallen asleep on the sofa in my room.
“she went. suddenly there was a great wind. the girl lost her hat and
“she will go to the country.”
shinshín, a cousin of the countess’, a man with “a sharp tongue”
shinshín. “he has stopped austria’s cackle and i fear it will be
shirt, and in every knapsack the appointed number of articles, “awl,
shod in a tartar boot embroidered with silver, and the firm pressure
shooting at you like a target.”
short sturdy figure with the sinewy hairy hand and stumpy fingers in
shoulder and taking his feet off the sofa.
shoulders and dropped his eyes as if startled by something extraordinary
shoulders and eyes, almost closing the latter, sighed, and moved away
shoulders. anna mikháylovna with just the same movement raised her
shoulders, turned out his toes, tapped gently with his foot, and, by
shoulder, their bayonets interlocking, moved over the bridge in a dense
should get not more than two hundred rubles every four months, even
shouted.
shouted denísov in a bloodthirsty tone.
shouted denísov, suddenly, turning purple and rushing at the man with
shouted the regimental commander, thrusting forward his jaw and pointing
shouted to him:
showed a paper she held in her hand—with the verses nicholas had
showed greatness of soul by not fearing to take on himself the whole
showed that, in spite of all his love and respect for his father, he was
show her over, and they’ll talk nineteen to the dozen. that’s
showing the creases where it had been folded and thick gold epaulettes
showing the spot where it burst.
shudder of disgust.
“shut up!” cried dólokhov, pushing him away from the window. the
sick man had been laid in a stately pose in keeping with the ceremony
side of the question and you will see that your duty, on the contrary,
side (only now did pierre realize how near death his father was), and
sídorov, turning to the french, winked, and began to jabber meaningless
sighed. “i have loved you like a son from the first. trust yourself to
     sighing its message out to thee...
sight of murat’s mantle and ostrich plumes, qu’il n’y voit que du
sight of tears and was ready to cry himself.
significantly at her husband) “i’m afraid, i’m afraid!” she
sign of strength.
signs to the footmen, and anxiously glancing from the clock to the door
sign that this was exactly what he had desired and expected. turning
silence and the regular tramp of feet beating the ground in unison, one
silence at princess anna mikháylovna. after her talk with pierre, anna
silence ensued. the countess looked at her callers, smiling affably,
silent.
silent and seemed confused. the prince asked her about her father, and
silent as he passed by, and moved to make way for him. at first pierre
silent. at first kutúzov stood still while the regiment moved; then he
silently, with the languid interest of sick children, at the envoy
silent prayer. every morning she came in like that, and every morning
silken hangings. on leaving the bed both prince vasíli and the princess
sill, leaned over, and looked down.
sill. “listen!” cried he, standing there and addressing those in the
sill to attract attention. “wait a bit, kurágin. listen! if
simply looking at him.
since early morning—despite an injunction not to approach the picket
since his appointment as commander in chief. he told me himself that
since then pierre had not been disturbed and had spent the whole time in
“singers to the front” came the captain’s order.
sir, for shame! it would be better if you went to the war.”
sister, catiche, with a vicious and determined look steadily fixed on
sister-in-law’s friendship for you. she was not expecting us?”
sister’s, but while in her case everything was lit up by a joyous,
sister’s room his wife was already awake and her merry voice, hurrying
sister,” was all she said, in a dry and mournful tone.
sister with the mole.
sit down! sit down, michael ivánovich!”
sitting and dropped onto it, covering his face with his hand. pierre
sitting close to nicholas who was copying out some verses for her, the
sitting down beside him she began to speak about his father; but he
sitting here in almost the same positions as before, whispering to one
sitting in a conspicuous place and talking to him like a grown-up lady.
sitting noisily backward and forward, made efforts to control himself
sitting room.
sitting so for a while he rose, and, looking about him with frightened
situation it occurred to him that it was he who was destined to lead it
sixth chasseurs whom they had just passed. prince andrew was struck by
sixth stroke. the doctors pronounced recovery impossible. after a mute
skittles,” said he in conclusion.
sleep at night. come now, where has this great commander of yours shown
sleeves!” said anna mikháylovna, pointing to nicholas as he went out.
slender little girl.
slightly open, as if to say, “yes, yes, i am putting my purse in my
slightly sarcastic smile. “i am borís, son of princess anna
slight smile he began to examine his nails.
small but distinctly visible enemy column was moving down the hill,
small old man, with powdered wig, small withered hands, and bushy gray
“smart lads! only fit for a fair!” said one.
smash something. pushing away the footmen he tugged at the frame, but
smeared with chalk—as white as flour! i suppose they polish him up as
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile.
smile, and engaged the smiling julie in a confidential conversation
smile, and pronouncing the phrase “knocked out” with ringing
smiled and interrupted him.
smile of satisfaction and presented a strange appearance among the
smile on his lips change.
smile was unlike the half-smile of other people. when he smiled,
smiling at his reassuring thoughts.
smiling, but in spite of herself her eyes under their thick long lashes
smiling. “cela nous convient à merveille.*(2) suvórov now—he knew
smiling joyfully; and snatching the shawl from the footman, whom he
smilingly inclining his head.
smiling over the fan.
smoke, and an officer catching sight of bagratión rushed shouting after
smoke spasmodically and screwing up his eyes. this was an old bachelor,
smoke. the excited faces of the soldiers were blackened with it. some
smoking and talking. he neither smoked nor talked, but bending his head
smooth as a sign that the conversation was at an end.
smoothing down her dress with an inquiring look at her mother, when
snacks.”
snuffbox with her husband’s portrait on it.
so. and, in fact, the last letter he had received from mack’s army
soap, and all,” as the soldiers say. there was only one circumstance
so beautiful that very often in spite of the plainness of her face
so, but you have no sense about women. what an argumentative fellow you
society.
society, and so her position now is not a rosy one. we should enter into
society had lost her former influential connections. she had now come to
society, more especially of the feminine society, in which i have had
society woman to be buried in the country during the best years of her
so convulsively that her bare little shoulders shook. natásha’s
so delighted...” came the sounds of animated feminine voices,
so for friendship’s sake he is leaving the university and me, his
soft steps of the footmen. at one end of the table sat the countess with
so he simply held out his bristly cheek (as yet unshaven) and, regarding
so ill that he may die at any moment, and dr. lorrain has come from
“so it does,” thought pierre.
so it seems to me.”
soldier after camp life. despite his rapid journey and sleepless night,
soldier and the gay and smartly marching men. in the second file
soldier. “i’ll teach you to push on!... back!”
soldier of forty—looked sternly at the singers and screwed up his
soldiers, after a twenty-mile march, were kept mending and cleaning all
soldiers and officers of various regiments, they saw on their left some
soldiers’ boots. more than half the men’s boots were in holes. but
soldiers forming the picket line, like showmen exhibiting a curiosity,
soldiers held him while two others were flourishing their switches and
soldiers lifted the canteen lids to their lips with reverential faces,
soldiers passed in a semicircle round something where the ball had
soldiers. the company marched on gaily. the soldiers’ voices could be
soldiers to change into their greatcoats. the company commanders ran off
soldiers. “where are you shoving to? devil take you! can’t you wait?
soldier three gold pieces.
soldier with a wagon, who was pressing onto the infantrymen who were
soldier, with his clear blue eyes, stepped forward from the ranks, went
solemn interest and silent approval. the aunt spoke to each of them in
someday i will tell you about our parting and all that was said then.
some flash as of an electric spark shot from telyánin’s eyes to
“some herb vodka? certainly!” said túshin. “but still, to
some inspection business,” remarked the visitor.
some in the sitting room, some in the library.
some men who, carrying pails, came running downstairs, their boots
someone rich and distinguée, and it is on you that his relations’
someone to fire at.
something.”
something as she whispered:
something big, that splashed into the water.
something disconcerting to himself.
something like qualms of conscience. she had reminded him of what was
something striking and took part in a conversation only when that was
something to drink?”
sometimes four abreast. from all sides, behind and before, as far as ear
sometimes like a chip of wood whirling in the river, an hussar on foot,
sometimes on his way back from the anteroom he would pass through the
sometimes spend a whole night at his writing table. he worked well
some twenty men of his suite. these gentlemen talked among themselves
somewhere below his throat rushed to his face and eyes. he could not
somewhere beyond them. the hussars did not look round, but at the sound
son.”
song.
song, arousing an involuntary sensation of courage and cheerfulness.
son, ilyá? only fancy, i didn’t know you at first. do you remember
son made no rejoinder, but it was evident that whatever arguments were
son’s affair hushed up, but even he was ordered out of petersburg.”
son’s arrival: he gave orders to admit him to his apartments while
son, sat at the table writing. he glanced round.
son; sónya, the count’s fifteen-year-old niece, and little pétya,
son’s when speaking to him that afternoon, “believe me i suffer no
sónya and fat little pétya doubled up with laughter.
sónya could not continue, and again hid her face in her hands and in
sónya did not pull it away, and left off crying. natásha, not stirring
“sónya, don’t believe her, darling! don’t believe her! do you
sónya sat up. the little kitten brightened, its eyes shone, and it
sónya, shaking off some down which clung to her and tucking away the
“sónya,” she suddenly exclaimed, as if she had guessed the true
sónya trembled all over and blushed to her ears and behind them and
“sónya! what is anyone in the world to me? you alone are
“sónya! what is it? what is the matter?... oo... oo... oo...!” and
“sónya, what is the matter with you? how can you?” said he, running
soon as he had seen a visitor off he returned to one of those who were
soon as the conversation concerned himself he would begin to talk
sooner?”
“só-o-onya! look here! how can you torture me and yourself like that,
soothe him.
sophie—i can’t repeat them—that it made the count quite ill and he
sophie, the rosy, laughter-loving, youngest princess with the mole,
sorrowful, and all-forgiving expression on her face, stood by the door
sort—(le sort de l’armée d’ulm).” * he remembered these words
so that his mouth, the most striking feature of his face, was clearly
so that she felt herself surrounded on all sides by the acrid scent of
      * so that squares matters.
“so that’s what they hit with?” asked the accountant. “how
so the swishing sound of the strokes, and the desperate but unnatural
so the worse the condition it was in, the better pleased the commander
“so they will,” said nesvítski. “no, but what i should like,”
so to me? what have i done to you? you are going to the war and have no
soul to see such men as the old count and his worthy son,” said she.
sounded and you’ll be in a pretty position without your boots!” (the
sounded louder and calmer, the stretchers disappeared from sight.
sounded much like irony. but kutúzov went on blandly smiling with the
sounded still more firm and resolute.
sound of footsteps.
sound of kissing. when prince andrew went in the two princesses, who
sound of officers’ voices in eager conversation.
sound of that sentence: “contez nous çela, vicomte.”
sound of these voices, the inattentive way kozlóvski looked at him, the
sounds very fast: “kari, mala, tafa, safi, muter, kaská,” he said,
so widely from a private.
“soyez tranquille, lise, you will always be prettier than anyone
“so you are really going to the war, andrew?” she said sighing.
so young, and burdened with such riches—to what temptations he will be
spadefuls of red clay were continually being thrown up from behind the
sparkling black eyes, and black tousled mustache and hair. he wore an
speaking of berg as her “intended.” the count sat between them and
speaking playfully of a matter that evidently distressed him.
speaking quickly with a harsh german accent, looking to both sides and
speaking very gently.
specially amiable mood that day.
specially choice delicacy a piece of meat that no one who had seen it in
spectacles and white dressing gown, in which he received no one but his
spend time in reading what is unintelligible and can therefore bear
spirited impression.
spirit will not and cannot understand the emperor alexander’s
spite of his money. they wanted to introduce him to me, but i quite
splendid! and i am sitting here ill, as you see.”
splendid house!”
splendidly.”
splendid soldiers. besides he began by attacking germans. and only
“splendid! what a horse he will be!” he thought with a smile, and
spoil her, but really that seems the best plan. with her elder sister i
spoke as if his sole aim were to put a given number of questions—the
spoken to the gentleman ranker, he addressed him with the cordiality of
spoke particularly slowly, as if to impress the fact that there was no
spoke smilingly and listened with a laugh.
spoke to the taciturn michael ivánovich more often than to anyone else.
spot” (he stooped and pointed to the sloping ledge outside the window)
spread apart, he began explaining his reasons for thinking the abbé’s
spreading out his legs and putting his hands on his knees with the air
spread out her arms to show her short-waisted, lace-trimmed, dainty gray
spread out his arms with a choleric gesture.
spring up with more energy and again play with her cousin as soon as
squadron. all were looking at the enemy in front and at the squadron
squadron commander.
squadron in which nicholas rostóv served as a cadet was quartered in
squadron may be recommended for honors and he may get a ribbon. our
squadron’s officers in denísov’s quarters.
squadron, that in which rostóv was serving under denísov, to return to
squatting on his heels in front of a clerk. the clerk, with cuffs turned
staff...”
staff?”
staff captain’s question by a disapproving shake of his head.
staff officer.
staff officer, and at zherkóv, and he frowned.
staff officer smiled.) “kindly return to your posts, gentlemen, all of
stairs and up another, to pierre’s rooms.
standing together out of range of the shots, watching, now the small
standing up, on which lay an open exercise book, and the lathe with
stand made at krems and the victory over mortier raised the spirits of
starry night was followed by a bright cheerful morning. the snow was
stars on his breast. he seemed to have grown thinner since the morning;
starting from their sockets to watch their chief. on reaching the
start my apprenticeship as old maid.”
*** start of this project gutenberg ebook war and peace ***
stating them to the emperor francis. he vividly imagined the casual
stayed his hand. the sergeant, who was evidently wiser than his general,
staying the whole evening, i hope?”
steadily and ceaselessly on all sides. with the exception of the aunt,
step; a soldier who had fallen behind, his face showing alarm at his
step could be heard. on their left flank, nearest to bagratión, marched
stepped away from the man and looked round inquiringly at the adjutant
stepped softly over the carpet and went out into the waiting room.
steps.
steps behind him holding two horses by their bridles. each time prince
steps. behind the company the sound of wheels, the creaking of springs,
steps down the line. he was evidently pleased at his own display of
steps, her workbag on her arm, and gaily spreading out her dress sat
steps. “o god,” he said with tears in his eyes, “how could you do
step that for you all is ended, all is closed except the drawing
stern but handsome face really joined in the dance. what was expressed
stern eyes on his son.
sternly with a threatening and forbidding movement of her head.
stern, threatening, inaccessible, and intangible line which separates
still five men between him and dólokhov with his bluish-gray uniform.
still gazed at the spot where pierre’s face had been before he sat
still he was lifted and laid on the stretcher.
still in the drawing room, drew a chair toward him or her, and jauntily
still, i will take borís and go to see him at once, and i shall speak
still looking silently at her brother and her beautiful eyes were full
still quite a young lady, before her nose was broken; how she had aged
still smiling, she gracefully moved away, turning and glancing at her
still sound, yellowish teeth.
“still the same; but what can you expect, this noise...” said the
still why didn’t you capture him? so don’t be surprised if not only
stir around him, then the people resumed their places and the service
stones of the pavement.
stood waiting by the door.
“stop jesting,” said prince andrew sadly and seriously. this news
stopped and glanced inquiringly over his spectacles at his guide. anna
stopping occasionally at a corner to make menacing gestures at the wall,
“stop this jesting,” he said.
stouter!...”
straight into his son’s face with keen eyes which seemed to see
strains of daniel cooper (somewhat resembling those of a merry peasant
straw covered street and turned into the wide courtyard of count cyril
strayed from under her friend’s plaits.
streets of brünn and found himself surrounded by high buildings, the
stretchers came into view before rostóv. and the fear of death and of
“stretchers!” shouted someone behind him.
(strictly speaking, daniel cooper was one figure of the anglaise.)
strictly to obey. you said the bridge would be burned, but who would it
striking a blow!”
striking him regularly on his bare back. the man shrieked unnaturally.
striking his horse with his long muscular legs as if it were to blame
strong, healthy, cheerful, and excited, and are surrounded by other such
struck the ground in front of them.
struck two and another with a shrill tone joined in from the drawing
study, on the blue sofa, the confidential sofa? why cannot i now, as
style, wearing an antique coat and powdered hair; and when prince andrew
subject, and was thus at the duc’s mercy. the latter spared him, and
subject under discussion than those they are talking with.
subordinate by me.
subordinate commanders was done, if not by his direct command, at least
subsiding under the delightful interest of his own story, “is that the
subtleties here beyond my feeble intelligence, but i can’t make it
succeeded in forestalling the french he was to delay them as long as
succeeded in setting two loquacious talkers at one another.
such bad health, and now this vexation about his son is enough to kill
such things about bonaparte, but understanding that he was wanted as
suddenly.
suddenly dólokhov made a backward movement with his spine, and his arm
suddenly from the next room were heard the footsteps of boys and girls
suddenly heard a sound new to him, of something swiftly approaching...
suddenly prince hippolyte started up making signs to everyone to attend,
suddenly she jumped up onto a tub to be higher than he, embraced him so
suddenly the angry, squirrel-like expression of the princess’ pretty
suggested to him a blow from something. he looked at prince vasíli
suggested to him a point of view which gave him a right to despise
suggestion and pressed his lips to the large boned, fleshy hand. neither
suite.
suite, and in the smoke that suddenly surrounded the gun they could see
suite and said in french:
suite who had mimicked the regimental commander, fell back from the
sumptuous but cold apartments known to pierre only from the front
sun. how beautiful the sky looked; how blue, how calm, and how deep!
superstition, and only two virtues—activity and intelligence. he
supported him under the arms. there was a gurgle in his throat and he
support of his battery all was forgotten. prince andrew listened
supposed, share the general russian antipathy to the austrians which was
suppose that i should look severely on your affection for that young
“surely he will leave something to borís,” said the countess.
surprise.”
surrendered but had beaten the french.
surveying the guests, and leisurely arranged her wide sleeves as if
suvórov giving his saber to bagratión in italy, and the recollection
suvórov’s wars. send it to the academy. here are some jottings for
swallowing his r’s, and pronouncing the latin words with a french
sweeter, and better than the feelings which the beautiful eyes of a
sweetest comforts to my poor heart, which has already suffered so much.
sweetly. it was the third time that day that, with an ecstatic and
sweet, so good-natured, and her position now is a very hard one.”
swinging their arms and keeping time spontaneously, marched with long
symmetrically on his knees in the naïve attitude of an egyptian statue,
table.
table and becoming more animated and talking more rapidly: “what if
table. denísov was sitting there scratching with his pen on a sheet of
table linen, he would call dmítri vasílevich, a man of good family and
table that he had pushed away. “but... in short, the fact is... you
table. “what are you thumping the table for?” she demanded of the
“take a glass of boiled water and put a pinch of cream of tartar,”
take a seat beside her.
“take a stick between your legs, that’ll suit you for a horse!”
take it...” he threw it on the table. “i have an old father and
“take it if you like,” said the officer, giving the girl an apple.
“take it right out, or they’ll think i’m holding on,” said
taken advice; but no, you go and blurt it all straight out before the
taken, and all this for the beaux yeux * of his sardinian majesty. and
taken and i hope it will not be, for it is mined and orders have been
take part in receiving the visitors. the count met the guests and saw
takes place at such moments.
take the money,” and he threw the purse to him and ran out of the inn.
take these away. put this on the seat and this to the right.”
“take this and deliver it,” said he to his adjutant, handing him the
taking advantage of it!”
taking a glass from the table he went up to pierre.
taking a letter addressed in a woman’s hand from a bag hanging above
taking charges from their pouches, while others were firing, though who
taking leave of anna pávlovna. “it is settled,” she added in a low
taking no notice of his arrival. a wax candle stood at each side of the
taking offense, but you don’t mind disgracing the whole regiment!”
taking out what she was holding inside it, as if what she held were
talked of peace but did not believe in its possibility; others talked
talking about me? let us talk about you,” he added after a silence,
talking. seeing them pass, prince vasíli drew back with obvious
talking too loudly and vehemently with the abbé, so she hurried to the
tangled black hair.
taste. and she had a lady’s maid, also big. she said....”
teacher’s fault or the pupil’s, this same thing happened every day:
teach you to dress the men in fancy coats for a parade.... eh...?”
tears.”
teeth, he began with stubby fingers of both hands to ruffle up his thick
telling her things. she has had a dream and is frightened.”
telling me what forces are being collected against him! while you and i
“tell me about that!” he said.
tell me,” he added with studied carelessness as if it had only just
“tell me, my dear,” said she to natásha, “is mimi a relation of
“tell me, when did the battle begin?” he asked hurriedly.
“tell these devils, these fiends, to let me pass!” shouted denísov
tell you for the tenth time that if the letter to the emperor and the
telyánin.
telyánin.
telyánin, and he went out to give the order.
telyánin’s orderly. “has something happened?” he added, surprised
telyánin, taking up his cap and moving toward a small empty room. “we
telyánin was sitting in the same indolent pose in which rostóv had
temptation she slipped quietly behind one of the columns. in the midst
tenacious endurance and vigor of hardy old age. after a few more turns
tenderly sad voice, she said:
ten minutes later lavrúshka brought the coffee. “he’s coming!”
terrible and holy secrets of providence while we remain in this flesh
terrible dragon, a lady distinguished not for wealth or rank, but for
terribly true. i pity prince vasíli but am still more sorry for pierre.
tête-de-pont. * they spin him a thousand gasconades, saying that
“thank god,” said his son smiling.
“thank you, my dear.” she kissed him on the forehead and sat down
“thank you very much, i will go on alone,” said prince andrew,
“thank you very much, prince,” answered one of the officers, pleased
thank you! you must have a rest. be at the levee tomorrow after the
than once. “you know it won’t do to leave your posts like this.
than with politics,” said he in his quiet ironical tone. “i know
“that abbé is very interesting but he does not see the thing in the
that affair for me and i shall always be your most devoted slave-slafe
that afternoon. she felt that as she brought with her the person the
that all europe is powerless before him.... and i don’t believe a
that anna mikháylovna whom i would not take for a housemaid... the
that both her slender bare arms clasped him above his neck, and, tossing
that came upon him at hollabrünn, which was clearly impossible. but
that could save the army, and how he alone would be entrusted with the
that evening to bid a last farewell to the celebrated grandee of
that everything done by necessity, by accident, or by the will of
that everything was splendid. “just fancy: wants to be an hussar.
that friendship?” remarked the count in an inquiring tone.
that had already once been given in detail: “and tell the hussars
that had placed the vienna bridge in the hands of the french without
that he decided to go. the thought immediately occurred to him that his
“that here lives count cyril vladímirovich bezúkhov so rich, all
that he was at the front and in the power of a man toward whom he now
that his heart stood still. his hand trembled as he gave his horse into
that his remarks were too enthusiastic and emphatic for the occasion and
that if he asked on behalf of all who begged of him, he would soon be
that imprint of newness found in the households of the newly married.
that insignificant society people might carry them from drawing room to
that in spite of all the unpleasantness he had to endure he would still
that in this world there is neither honor nor justice. in this world one
“that is all nonsense.” prince andrew again interrupted him, “let
“that is doubtful,” said prince andrew. “monsieur le vicomte quite
that is not yet ready.
that is still too fresh. ah, dear friend, you are happy not to know
“that is what i ask you. no one, not even bonaparte, knows why.”
“that is why i beg to be sent to that detachment,” he said.
“that is, with ilyá rostóv who married nataly shinshiná,” said
that it seemed to be made of one piece with her head and covered with
that i was ungrateful, and that mamma would never allow him to marry
“that letter was written, though it was not sent, and the emperor knew
that makes me unhappy. but even in this i can see lately a shade of
that moment been wounded and his face showed fear rather than suffering.
that more irritating news than yours could not have been conceived.
that negotiations for peace were already proceeding, and that he
that one also passed. then followed a cart unlike any that had gone
that pierre could no longer see the reddish-yellow face with its gray
that provisions are supplied and the routes indicated,” said bilíbin,
     * “that russian army which has been brought from the ends of
“that’s all right. no one thinks you a coward, but that’s not the
that same evening there was an animated discussion among the
that same night, having taken leave of the minister of war, bolkónski
“that’s a miwacle.”
“that’s better, count,” said the staff captain, beginning to
“that’s fine,” said he.
“that’s for them all,” he said to the officer who came up.
that she had not intended her flight to bring her so far. behind her in
that showed that his father’s foibles did not prevent his son from
“that’s how we used to dance in our time, ma chère,” said the
that’s it.” and with a complacent sigh he would return to the
“that’s just it,” answered bilíbin. “listen! the french entered
“that’s just it, my dear fellow. you see it’s hurrah for the tsar,
that smile was immediately reflected on pierre’s face.
“that’s not the point, my dear.”
that soldier passed on, and after him came another sitting on a cart.
“that’s our battery,” said the staff officer indicating the
that stood before his plate, pierre held out one at random and drank
“that’s true!”
“that’s twue, devil take it!” shouted denísov, jumping up. “now
that sum. “he’s begun to go a little lame on the left foreleg,” he
“that’s what comes of a modern education,” exclaimed the visitor.
that’s why i have come... i am a relation. i shall not disturb him,
that the corsican monster who is destroying the peace of europe may
that the hussars must return quickly and fire the bridge.’”
that there were no political difficulties in europe and no real war,
that the strange lady, the aide-de-camp, and some of the servants, all
that they are to cross last and to fire the bridge as i ordered; and the
that they despaired of the possibility of checking this disorder.
that they may run smoothly.
that tonight he was a person obliged to perform some sort of awful
that village, amid the smoke, was something resembling a battery, but it
“that was a daniel cooper!” exclaimed márya dmítrievna, tucking up
“that was a nice snub for the little aide-de-camp,” came a voice
that were afloat, and so kutúzov’s suggestion of an austrian victory
that were arriving from russia. if kutúzov decided to remain at krems,
   that while her fingers touch the harp
that will decide the matter, but those who devised it,” said bilíbin
“that would be a fine thing!” said she. “i never wanted anything
“that would be fine, gentlemen!”
“that would take too long to tell,” answered the son.
that year to moreau to enter the russian service.... “wonderful!...
thawing in the sunshine, the horses galloped quickly, and on both sides
the 18th brumaire; was not that an imposture? it was a swindle, and not
the abbé. another, of young people, was grouped round the beautiful
the abbé morio and many others had also come.
the adjutant and the minister. “away from the smell of powder, they
the adjutant on duty, meeting prince andrew, asked him to wait, and went
the adjutant on duty,” said the official. “he will conduct you to
the advanced army. prince andrew bolkónski came into the room with the
the advantages are far less than in the infantry. just consider my own
the agility with which he capered about on his light feet, márya
the aide-de-camp was sent to confirm the order which had not been
the aide-de-camp with a respectful politeness evidently relating to the
the anteroom. “i can’t remain any longer in petersburg. tell me what
the archduchy of austria, and yet other regiments freshly arriving from
the archduke ferdinand and mack, and kutúzov, not considering this
the architect.
the armistice immediately and march on the enemy. inform him that the
the army, and about whom natásha had teased her elder sister véra,
the army considerably. throughout the whole army and at headquarters
the army now that it is in danger. i understand that. mon cher, it is
the army was a great grief to me. this young man, of whom i spoke to you
the arrival of the rest of the troops who were on their way from vienna,
the austrian general looked dissatisfied, but had no option but to reply
the baggage wagons had all crossed, the crush was less, and the last
the balance of power, and the latter, evidently interested by the young
the baron.
the battalion commander. “oh, my god!” he added, stepping resolutely
the battalion commander perceived the jovial irony and laughed.
the battle had begun! prince andrew turned his horse and galloped back
“the berlin cabinet cannot express a feeling of alliance,” began
the better. but bogdánich, without looking at or recognizing rostóv,
the black, hairy, snub-nosed face of váska denísov, and his whole
the bohemian mountains with. it’s a bad lookout, old fellow! but
the bonfires of our infantry who were felling wood. the french line was
the boots.
the bottle of rum was brought. the window frame which prevented anyone
the bridge.
the bridge and its celebrated bridgehead and prince auersperg? we heard
the bridge and not let us cross? but it will please our sovereign the
the bridge chased each other along. looking on the bridge he saw equally
the bridge, for the horizon as seen from the valley through which the
the bridge unobserved, flings the bags of incendiary material into
“‘the brook,’” suggested nicholas.
the card tables were drawn out, sets made up for boston, and the
the care of a skillful rider and, slightly bending over, disengaged his
the carved back of a velvet chair he had turned round for the purpose,
the case is this: you ought to have thought the matter over and
the chair for her.
the changed expression on prince bagratión’s face at this moment. it
the chanting of the service ceased, and the voice of the priest was
the cheerful mood of their officers after the inspection infected the
the clear blue eyes looked at the commander in chief just as boldly as
the clever though shy, but observant and natural, expression which
the climate,” said he.
the coach with six horses was waiting at the porch. it was an autumn
the coin was a new one. rostóv rose and went up to telyánin.
the cold wind, swarmed in these earthworks like a host of white ants;
the colonel, closely—to find in his face confirmation of his own
the colonel deliberately stopped the regiment and turned to nesvítski.
the colonel looked silently at the officer of the suite, at the stout
the colonel told them that the declaration of war had already appeared
the colonel was a stout, tall, plethoric german, evidently devoted to
“the commander in chief is engaged,” repeated kozlóvski calmly.
“the commander in chief is engaged,” said kozlóvski, going
the commander in chief is expected and you leave your place? eh? i’ll
the commander in chief, kutúzov.
the commander in chief’s one sound eye showed him to be so preoccupied
the commander in chief would inspect the regiment on the march. though
the commander of the company, with his eyes fixed on his superior,
the commander of the dragoons had already retreated beyond the dip in
the commander of the regiment, a thin, feeble-looking old man with a
the commander of the regiment turned to prince bagratión, entreating
the commander of the regiment was an elderly, choleric, stout, and
the commander with a tone of suffering in his voice, while there were
the company commander might get killed and he, as senior in the company,
the conversation, “almost all the aristocracy has already gone over to
the conversation broke up into insignificant small talk about the last
the conversation was hushed.
the convoy officer.
the count burst out laughing. the other guests seeing that shinshín
the count came waddling in to see his wife with a rather guilty look as
the count danced well and knew it. but his partner could not and did not
the count, dying with laughter.
the countess as her mother and called her so) “that i am spoiling
the countess exchanged glances with anna mikháylovna. the latter
the countess’ eyes filled with tears and she pondered in silence.
the countess tried to frown, but could not. márya dmítrievna shook her
the countess was a woman of about forty-five, with a thin oriental type
the countess was upset by her friend’s sorrow and humiliating poverty,
the countess, with a smile.
the count, holding his cards fanwise, kept himself with difficulty from
“the count is suffering physically and mentally, and apparently you
the count jumped up and, swaying from side to side, spread his arms wide
the count, my uncle; but you, my dear, had better go to pierre meanwhile
the count was beginning to breathe heavily and quickly which was always
the count went in first with márya dmítrievna, the countess followed
the crowd moved on again. nesvítski realized that it was a cannon ball.
the crowd of retreating soldiers, ordering them back. bagratión rode up
the crystal decanters and fruit vases, the count kept glancing at his
the determination of denísov who flourished his sword and shouted
“the devil only knows! they say so.”
“the devil only knows what they’re about!” muttered denísov.
“the devil skin your emperor.”
the dinner sat silent, glancing with a frightened look now at her
“the divine mercy is inexhaustible! unction is about to be
the doctor cast a rapid glance upwards and silently shrugged his
the doctor glanced at his watch.
the door.
the door himself behind him.
the doorway appeared a student with a crimson coat collar, an officer
the drawing room. he evidently tried to find something to say, but
the dull, sleepy expression was no longer there, nor the affectation
the duties of wife and mother upon me i shall try to perform them as
     the earth by english gold, we shall cause to share the same
the elderly lady was a princess drubetskáya, belonging to one of the
the elders began talking about bonaparte. julie karágina turned to
the eldest princess paused in her reading and silently stared at him
the emperor about him; so that in the case of his death—and he is
the emperor alexander and the king of prussia in berlin? if prussia
“the emperor alexander,” said she, with the melancholy which
the emperor interrupted him.
the emperor spoke to him most graciously. annette and i were speaking of
the emperor thanked prince andrew and bowed. prince andrew withdrew and
the enchanted circle i cannot escape from. i am now going to the war,
the englishman nodded, but gave no indication whether he intended to
the englishman took out his purse and began counting out the money.
the english will come off badly, you know, if napoleon gets across the
the enns and the danube became visible, and the rocky left bank of the
the enormously high study door opened and showed the figure of a rather
the enormous study was full of things evidently in constant use.
the entrenchment, and went on again. just behind it they came upon some
the epistles and gospels. let us not seek to penetrate what mysteries
“the execution of the duc d’enghien,” declared monsieur pierre,
the exercise book containing geometrical figures.
the expression she saw on the maid of honor’s face, and again relapsed
the eyes of the general and the soldier met. the general became silent,
the face of each soldier and each officer seemed to say.
the face of the little princess changed. she sighed and said: “yes,
the faces of officers and men brightened up at the sound. everyone got
“the fact of the matter is,” said she significantly, and also in a
the fall of austria’s capital. “how is it vienna was taken? what of
(the family solicitor) “and he says the same.”
the farther forward and nearer the enemy he went, the more orderly and
the feather bed. natásha began consoling her, but her face showed that
the feeling, “it has begun! here it is!” was seen even on prince
the fire of life had seemed extinguished, now flashed with brilliant
the first door on the left led into the princesses’ apartments. the
the first time. sometimes that same look fell on pierre, and that funny
the foreman of a spinning mill, when he has set the hands to work, goes
the foremost, wearing a cossack cloak and lambskin cap and riding a
the french, after crossing the bridge at vienna, were advancing in
the french grenadier.
the french guns were hastily reloaded. the infantry in their blue
the french had time to fire three rounds of grapeshot before the hussars
“the french have abandoned the left bank?”
the french onlookers and listeners laughed.
the french sentences which to them were meaningless, with an air of
the french, the spy reported, having crossed the vienna bridge, were
the french were firing, and he felt his heart palpitating as he rode
the french with his whole army was impossible. the road for the french
the friends were silent. neither cared to begin talking. pierre
the front, but at dürrenstein, where i was, our attack began after
the fulfillment of duty, he rose to see some visitors off and, stroking
the full significance of the words he heard.
the gates, a group of undertakers, who hid whenever a carriage drove up,
the general frowned. though there was no definite news of an austrian
the general frowned, turned away, and went on.
the general’s face clouded, his lips quivered and trembled. he took
the generals were passing by, looking as if they wished to avoid
the general... third company to the commander.” the words passed along
the general, who looked through his field glass.
the gentlemen around.
the gentlemen assembled at bilíbin’s were young, wealthy, gay society
the german closed his eyes, signifying that he did not understand.
the german landlord.
the german laughed, came out of the cowshed, pulled off his cap, and
the german village of salzeneck. the best quarters in the village were
the girl smiled and took it. nesvítski like the rest of the men on the
the gleaming icons stood a long invalid chair, and in that chair
the good-natured expression still more apparent, and gazed at his friend
the grand cross of maria theresa, and the whole army received rewards.
the gray-haired valet was sitting drowsily listening to the snoring of
the greatest war there ever was, and i know nothing and am fit for
the ground, as a heavy fire had been opened on him and he was losing
the group round mortemart to listen to what was being said there, and
the guards to the field of battle, afraid of letting a ready victim
the guests got up and took their leave, promising to return to dinner.
the guests, knowing of the affair with the bear, looked with curiosity
the gunners who had seized it straining to roll it quickly back to its
the hall porter, “i know count cyril vladímirovich is very ill...
the hall porter sullenly pulled a bell that rang upstairs, and turned
the hand nor a single muscle of the count’s face stirred. once more
the handsome véra smiled contemptuously but did not seem at all hurt.
the handsome véra, who produced such an irritating and unpleasant
the head of the column had already descended into the hollow. the clash
the headquarters were situated two miles away from salzeneck, and
the head that he was considering this information.
the high-shouldered figure of zherkóv, familiar to the pávlograds as
the hollow the less they could see but the more they felt the nearness
the honor of being received, that i have not yet had time to think of
the honor of the flag... well, never mind, it’s true i’m to blame,
“the hoof’s cracked! that’s nothing. i’ll teach you what to do
“the hours are the same, and the lathe, and also the mathematics and
the house where the commander in chief was.
the hussars.”
the hussar shouted back.
the hussars ran back to the men who held their horses; their voices
the icons and there was a pleasant scent of flowers and burnt pastilles.
the icons, as though declaring to all that she could not answer for
the imposing figure of nesvítski followed by his cossack, and
the infantry who had been stopped crowded near the bridge in the
the intellectual lights of petersburg were gathered there and, like a
their battery a milk-white cloud arose. then came the distant report of
their bayonets and guns.
their conversation would probably have been different but for the effect
their courage before him.
their doubts and excite their imagination, giving them a bent for
their greatcoats were ranged in lines, the sergeants major and company
their journey. she answered him and continued her chatter.
their long hair falling over their magnificent glittering vestments,
their musical talent, to sing something. natásha, who was treated as
their own form of government; and i believe that once free from the
their sabers catching in the bridles and their spurs jingling, the
their seats, went up to “congratulate” the countess, and reached
their thick, bushy eyebrows sternly scanned all present and rested on
their way to negotiate with prince auersperg. he lets them enter the
their woman’s way! i am glad to have her. sit down and talk. about
the kitchen would have cared to eat, so anna pávlovna served up to
the landing. “i’d better go to my own room.”
the large table covered with books and plans, the tall glass-fronted
the last of the infantry hurriedly crossed the bridge, squeezing
the last syllable of the general’s name like a frenchman, “has been
the late emperor, and was nicknamed ‘the king of prussia.’ he is
the left, and took up the bottle. anatole brought two candles and
the left! wait a bit.” but the soldiers, crowded together shoulder to
the letter away, and leaning his elbows on the table he drew toward him
the lieutenant never looked the man he was speaking to straight in the
“the limits of human life ... are fixed and may not be
the lines and an adjutant ran to look for the missing officer.
the little kitten, feasting her eyes on him, seemed ready at any moment
the little princess did not, or did not wish to, hear his words. she was
the little princess during the whole discussion and the rest of
the little princess entered the room. the passage broke off in the
the little princess had also left the tea table and followed hélène.
the little princess had grown stouter during this time, but her eyes
the little princess, kissing her. “i know you already through my
the little princess lay in the armchair, mademoiselle bourienne chafing
the little princess. she felt, as courtiers do when the tsar enters, the
the little princess talked incessantly, her short, downy upper lip
the little princess went round the table with quick, short, swaying
the little town could be seen with its white, red-roofed houses, its
the lively song gave a special flavor to the tone of free and easy
the living from the dead lies uncertainty, suffering, and death. and
the long german carts six or more pale, dirty, bandaged men were being
the magnificent reception room was crowded. everyone stood up
the maintenance of the balance of power of europe, and it would save the
them. all eyes fastened involuntarily on this french column advancing
the manager of all his affairs, and while looking with pleasure at the
them. and among all these faces that he found so tedious, none seemed
the manly voice again interrupted the artillery officer.
the march: in their greatcoats, and packs, and without any preparation
    * the marshalls.
“the master is not in, he’s gone to headquarters,” said
the matter depended on my personal wishes, the will of his majesty the
“the means are ... the balance of power in europe and the rights of
the member of the hofkriegsrath looked at him severely but, seeing the
the memory of a remote event long past.
the men and women had separated as in church. all were silently crossing
them from the other end of the corridor, strauch, an austrian general
the military governor of moscow, who had been assiduous in sending
the mines and blow up the bridge, this sergeant, seeing that the french
the minister of war.”
the minister of war but also his most august majesty the emperor and
them, neither do i condemn them. only it seems to me that christian
them now! and yet really the anxiety is greater now than the joy. one is
them off, inviting them all to dinner.
the moment prince andrew entered the room had watched him with glad,
the morning, carriages with six horses had been coming and going
the morning she told the rostóvs and all her acquaintances the details
     * the most fascinating woman in petersburg.
the mother smoothed the folds of her dyed silk dress before a large
the mothers, wives, and children of the men who were going and should
themselves, and the reading of the church service, the subdued chanting
the mud off his face with his sleeve. “perched up there, you’re more
then....”
the nations? adorable! it is enough to make one’s head whirl! it is as
then believe an expert. i have just been talking to dmítri onúfrich”
then, brothers, on to glory, led by father kámenski.” this song had
the new campo formio are to be drawn up.”
the news of count bezúkhov’s death reached us before your letter
then he remained silent for a while, and all at once looked cheerfully
the night he received the news, kutúzov sent bagratión’s vanguard,
the night was dark but starry, the road showed black in the snow that
“then i’ll have it brought round,” said rostóv wishing to avoid
“then it is certain?” said the prince.
then named prince vasíli in an inquiring whisper, then pointed to the
then nicholas sang a song he had just learned:
the noblest role on earth, and he is so virtuous and noble that god will
then particularly strong.
then she slipped down among the flowerpots on the other side of the tubs
then she smiled again and clutched prince vasíli’s arm more tightly.
then, suddenly spread out in the sunlight, far-distant objects could
“then tomorrow you will speak to the emperor?”
the nurse, as she stood in one of the doorways.
the nursery, but sónya was not there either. natásha concluded that
then with the unerring official memory that characterized him he
then, wostóv, now then!”
the officer flourished his arm and hastily rode away.
the officer glanced at him, and without replying turned again to the
the officers and men of denísov’s squadron, though they tried to talk
the officers laughed.
the official side of the service. these gentlemen received prince
the old man made a departure from his usual routine in honor of his
the old man was in a good temper after his nap before dinner. (he
the old man was silent.
the old prince’s face.
the old prince stopped writing and, as if not understanding, fixed his
(the one who had paraded his regiment before kutúzov at braunau) that
“the only thing that is hard for me... i will tell you the truth,
the only young people remaining in the drawing room, not counting the
the order was given to halt and down knapsacks.
the other, glanced inquiringly with his large, intelligent, kindly eyes
the other men in the room, her anxiety could only have reference to
the others. again someone shouted, “stretchers!” four men seized the
the other side of the room. “how young-looking he is!”
the other—who with beaming faces had come to see their master making
the pained expression his joke had brought to his sister’s face, he
“the past always seems good,” said he, “but did not suvórov
the patches grew deeper on her forehead, neck, and cheeks. she tried to
the pathetic importance of these last moments of meeting between the
the pávlograd hussars were stationed two miles from braunau. the
the people,” the abbé was saying. “it is only necessary for one
the pine forests veiled in the mist of their summits... there was peace
the place of mourning for the younger female generation in the rostóv
the plan of operation for the coming campaign. he explained how an army,
the pleasure of spending the evening with you.”
the portfolio so firmly that it was plain she would not let go easily.
the postilion started, the carriage wheels rattled. prince hippolyte
the povarskáya, so well known to all moscow. the countess herself and
the priests and deacons and some servants also went in at the door.
the priests, rose and offered him her seat; an aide-de-camp picked up
the prim visitor could not help joining in.
the prince again laughed his frigid laugh.
the prince answered nothing, but she looked at him significantly,
the prince bowed to signify his respect and gratitude.
the prince gave orders that no one should leave his post. now you,
the princess.
the princess and hastily adjusting his lorgnette, as if without this
the princess bent over the exercise book on the table.
the princess blushed, and raised her arms with a gesture of despair.
the princess continued to look at him without moving, and with the same
the princess did not reply. their efforts in the struggle for the
the princess did speak, her words would not be flattering to anna
the princess’ eyes grew dim, she could not see and could not hear
the princess gave a wrong answer.
the princess gave no reply and did not even smile, but left the room as
the princess glanced at her watch and, seeing that she was five minutes
the princess, holding her little dog on her lap with her thin bony
the princess let go.
the princess listened, smiling.
the princess looked in a scared way at her father’s eyes glittering
the princess, now quite changed. “and what does she come worming
the princess, picking up her dress, was taking her seat in the dark
the princess pondered awhile with a thoughtful smile and her luminous
the princess rested her bare round arm on a little table and considered
the princess said nothing, but suddenly her short downy lip quivered.
the princess smiled as people do who think they know more about the
the princess smiled. she rose with the same unchanging smile with which
the princess started. evidently pierre’s words touched her to the
the princess, who had a straight, rigid body, abnormally long for her
the princess wished to rise, but the prince held her by the hand. she
the prince sternly; “i’m afraid you write much nonsense. i’ll read
the prince was silent and looked indifferent. but, with the womanly and
the prince, who was in his large study. from the far side of the house
the project gutenberg ebook of war and peace, by leo tolstoy
the puhse?” he asked, turning to rostóv.
the purse is here! i’ll flay this scoundwel alive, and it will be
the question arose whether the troops were to be in marching order or
the ranks of obscure officers and offer him the first step to fame!
the ras...” he did not finish.
“the rat”) he said, rubbing his forehead and whole face with both
there.
there.”
there any hope?”
there are no difficulties in your way.... but nicholas is my cousin...
there are things in it difficult for the feeble human mind to grasp, it
the rearguard and have an eye on the order of retreat, “which is also
the rearguard by the commander in chief, was sitting on the trail of a
the rearguard stood with a staff officer, scanning the country through
“there, fedótov, you should be quartered on them!”
therefore offered this truce to avoid unnecessary bloodshed. count
therefore—this is between ourselves—i instinctively feel that we
the regimental adjutant came in and confirmed the news brought by
the regimental commander, flushing, ran to his horse, seized the stirrup
the regimental commander, going up to the line himself, ordered the
(the regimental commander’s face now that the inspection was happily
the regimental commander sought out dólokhov in the ranks and, reining
the regimental commander was afraid he might be blamed for this and did
the regiment, and how satisfied his father was with him. berg evidently
the regiment broke up into companies, which went to their appointed
the regiment i’d... ah well, i’ll show that in action, and for me
there, god only knows what would have happened! you know, uncle promised
there had been actions at lambach, amstetten, and melk; but despite the
there?” he said, turning to the door as he heard a tread of heavy
“there is in moscow a lady, une dame, and she is very stingy. she must
“there is nothing so refreshing after a sleepless night as a cup
“there is one thing i constantly pray god to grant, mon cousin,” she
there is only mademoiselle bourienne....”
there is so much happiness; but here... groans, suffering, fear, and
“there is still much, much before us,” he said, as if with an old
“there is still time, my dear. you must remember, catiche, that it was
“there, it’s just as i thought,” said rostóv to himself. “he
“there, leave bruin alone; here’s a bet on.”
the remains of our regiment which had been in action rapidly formed up
there many more of you to come?”
“there now! confess that this is delightful,” said he. “this
“there now! didn’t i tell you, michael mítrich, that if it was said
“there now, prince! we can’t stop those fellows,” said the staff
“there now!” said the officer of the suite, “that’s
“there now!... so you, too, are in the great world?” said he to
there. now then!”
“there now, zíkin, they ought to put you on a horse. you’d look
the report of musketry.
the report which had been circulated that the austrians had been beaten
the reproachful tone of a man who has repeated the same thing more
there, she glided up to him with a sort of amble, not exactly bowing yet
“there’s nothing to be gay about,” answered bolkónski.
“there’s plenty to do still.”
there! tea!”
there. then, as happens to people of weak character, he desired so
the retreat of the frightened bonaparte.
there was a crush. halfway across stood prince nesvítski, who had
there was a general movement as the princess, smiling and talking
there was generally a drinking bout, finishing with visits of a kind
there was not a trace of agitation on his face. with delicate irony he
there was now no one in the reception room except prince vasíli and the
there was something peculiar about it, quite unsoldierly, rather comic,
“there, what egotists men all are: all, all egotists! just for a whim
the ribs and telling him to hold his hand up. soldiers scattered over
the right and sent an adjutant to the dragoons with orders to attack the
the rivers inn (at braunau) and traun (near linz). on october 23 the
the room was crowded with small pieces of furniture, whatnots,
the russian army) are nothing compared to what this man has been doing
the russian emperor’s aide-de-camp is an impostor. officers are
the russian officer in charge of the transport lolled back in the front
the russians were running away and that he himself was killed, but he
the rustle of a woman’s dress was heard in the next room. prince
the same words, about their health and her own, and the health of her
the scraping of chairs. then one of those conversations began which last
the seal of her letter. it was from her most intimate friend from
the second princess had just come from the sickroom with her eyes red
these gentlemen ride onto the bridge alone and wave white handkerchiefs;
these,” he said, handing him several papers, “make a neat memorandum
these latter the butler thrust mysteriously forward, wrapped in a
these poignant joys and sorrows. you are fortunate, for the latter are
the sergeant major with brightened expressions, licking their lips and
these rooms. anna mikháylovna, addressing a maid who was hurrying past
the service and patriotically russian. he resented shinshín’s remark.
the service before everything. thanks, thanks!” and he went on
these things. i absolutely must see him, however painful it may be for
these words he repeated to everyone without exception or variation, and
the shed with super human force, throwing up a mass of earth. the ground
the sick man was so surrounded by doctors, princesses, and servants
the sky, the dawn merging with the afterglow of sunset, was visible.
the sly what was left in the glasses. from the third room came sounds of
the sofa. the princess came in. she had changed her gown for a house
the soldiers crowded against one another with terrified faces, and
“the soldiers say it feels easier without boots,” said captain
the soldier to whom the laughers referred was dólokhov. prince andrew
the soldier. “turn back with your slut!”
the son, lowering his eyes, followed her quietly.
the son, or pierre, whom it had been pitiful to see, so stricken was he
the son sighed, thus admitting that his father had understood him. the
the sound of voices and the shouts of command. the whole air reeked with
“the sovereigns? i do not speak of russia,” said the vicomte, polite
the spectators by the unexpectedness of his adroit maneuvers and
the spot indicated to him. he made no reply on his father’s favorite
the squadron crossed the bridge and drew out of range of fire without
“the squadron quartermaster!” said lavrúshka.
“the squadwon can’t pass,” shouted váska denísov, showing his
the staff captain.
the staff captain, “but we old fellows, who have grown up in and, god
the staff captain in his deep bass, calmly stroking his long mustache.
the staff captain, kírsten, had twice been reduced to the ranks for
the staff captain’s voice began to tremble. “you have been in the
the staff officer and prince andrew mounted their horses and rode on.
the staff officer remained behind and prince andrew rode on alone.
the story was very pretty and interesting, especially at the point
the stretchers, and love of the sun and of life, all merged into one
the study, like pistol shots, came the frequent sound of the old man
the stupid smile, which had left his face while he was speaking,
the subject of her request and must not be shown before the request was
the suite pointed out to bagratión a french column that was outflanking
the table, onto which he threw it.
the table, searched everywhere, and stood still in the middle of the
the table, summoned his daughter. he never gave his children a blessing,
the third!”
the third company was the last, and kutúzov pondered, apparently trying
the third group was gathered round mortemart and anna pávlovna.
the third interruption came when prince andrew was finishing his
“the third, i said the third!” cried the prince abruptly, pushing
the tipsy guests who were again crowding round the window, and listening
the troops in their disorderly flight confirmed these rumors.
the two ladies, addressing prince vasíli and pointing to an inlaid
the two pávlograd squadrons, having crossed the bridge, retired up the
the two young men, the student and the officer, friends from childhood,
the unknown general looked disdainfully down at kozlóvski, who was
“the unpleasant things were said to me,” remarked véra, “i said
the vicomte appreciated this silent praise and smiling gratefully
the vicomte bowed and smiled courteously in token of his willingness to
“the vicomte knew the duc personally,” whispered anna pávlovna to
the vicomte merely shrugged his shoulders. pierre looked solemnly at his
the vicomte’s story. prince vasíli’s words frightened her, an
the vicomte told his tale very neatly. it was an anecdote, then current,
the vicomte was a nice-looking young man with soft features and polished
the vicomte who was meeting him for the first time saw clearly that
the vicomte wished to begin his story and gave a subtle smile.
the visitor, compelled to look on at this family scene, thought it
the visitor made a gesture with her hand.
the visitor, not knowing what to say, shook her head.
the waiter.
the war is over, that the emperor francis is arranging a meeting with
the water, and approaches the tête-de-pont. at length appears the
the way from ulm, while dólokhov maintained that the russians had not
the way he walked through the ranks behind the generals, bending forward
the weather had cleared again since noon and the sun was descending
the weight of his knapsack.
the well-known prince bolkónski who had to retire from the army under
the whole place were dragging logs and brushwood and were building
the whole story of life. you talk of bonaparte and his career,” said
“the wife!” said the old prince, briefly and significantly.
the wild set led by dólokhov. zherkóv had met dólokhov abroad as a
the will and letter will be delivered to the emperor, and the petition
“the will will show that, my dear; our fate also depends on it.”
the window sill, but refrained from touching it. pierre again covered
the woman’s vehicle for trying to get ahead of others, and the strokes
the women.”
the word of command rang out, and again the regiment quivered, as with a
the words of the order were not clear to the regimental commander, and
the worst,” said the austrian general, evidently wishing to have done
“they are regular brigands, especially dólokhov,” replied the
they assure the officer on duty that they, the marshals, are on
they became silent, and pierre thought he saw the princess hide
they both felt happy). “we had our hands full last night. however, i
they contain; for how can we, miserable sinners that we are, know the
they dismounted and entered the tent. several officers, with flushed and
“they don’t even give one time to dwink!” answered váska
they do the guns.”
they entered the elegant, newly decorated, and luxurious dining room.
they entered the large hall, from which one of the doors led to the
they gave her an attraction more powerful than that of beauty. but the
“they give little hope,” replied the prince.
they got into the carriage and drove for a few minutes in silence.
they had gone by, the same stream of soldiers followed, with the same
they had lifted the dying man and were moving him.
they had looked at the regimental commander, seeming by their expression
they had when she was not thinking of herself. as with everyone, her
they’ll ransack that castle,” he remarked with evident approval.
they’ll say so again and again, and that will be the end of it. my
“they march splendidly,” remarked someone in bagratión’s suite.
“they might call a halt here or we’ll have to do another four miles
“they must be feeling dull, too,” said one of the bolder officers,
they must look somewhere, or it meant too much. pierre hesitated,
the young man, flattered, sat down nearer to her with a coquettish
the young man had departed. “there is never any ‘impossible’ with
“the young man’s a real hussar!” shouted the colonel, again
the young people, at the countess’ instigation, gathered round the
the young princess bolkónskaya had brought some work in a
the young prince. the members of the household were all gathered in the
“they received me and my news as one receives a dog in a game of
“they’re coming!... they’re coming!... stand aside, make way,
they rode up the opposite hill. from there the french could already be
“they say the ball will be very good,” replied the princess, drawing
they seized him by his arms; but he was so strong that everyone who
they stood silent, facing one another. the old man’s sharp eyes were
they too could, like natásha and borís, escape from the drawing room.
“they’ve been saying so a long while,” said the count, “and
they went through the porch and into the stable. the lieutenant
they went up to the door of the sitting room from which came the sound
they were again silent.
they were as usual laughing.
they were firing at could not be seen for the smoke which there was no
they were in the carriage. “he hardly recognizes anybody.”
thick, bushy eyebrows. prince andrew went up and kissed his father on
thick-set general with grizzled eyebrows and whiskers, and wider from
thin face. her eyes, always sad, now looked with particular hopelessness
thin face was now quivering with nervous excitement; his eyes, in which
thing.”
thing can be arranged. it shall be on your family’s behalf that i’ll
thing i have faith in! our good and wonderful sovereign has to perform
things and supper dishes stood in disorder, and in the middle of the
things,” and the skin over his left temple puckered, “either you
things, but austria never has wished, and does not wish, for war. she
things had to be. from the passage they went into a large, dimly
things. she did not reply, but looked at her seriously.
things that he has been expelled by the police.”
thinking about you. why are you going?”
thinking of?” she went on, turning to prince hippolyte. “fetch me my
think that he is your father ... perhaps in the agony of death.” she
think the regiment is not a bad one, eh?”
think we thoroughly understand.
“think what you please! i know you are just like father. think as
third company he suddenly stopped. his suite, not having expected this,
“thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen,” she counted on her slender
thirteen look at the boy they are in love with and have just kissed for
thirtieth he attacked mortier’s division, which was on the left bank,
thirty,” said he, looking at shinshín and the count with a joyful,
this action was so unlike her usual composure and the fear depicted on
this black-eyed, wide-mouthed girl, not pretty but full of life—with
this buonaparte has turned all their heads; they all think of how he
this defect was not due to any fault of the regimental commander, for
this disorder,” he muttered. “do as you like.”
this door led into a back anteroom. an old man, a servant of the
this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost
this expectation did not upset the regular routine of life in the old
this expression evidently pleased him.
this fact ought to give prince vasíli much satisfaction.
this he’ll soon have us, too, for his subjects! how are you?” and he
this house and in brünn itself. i want to entertain him as far as i
“this is absurd! come, let go i tell you.”
    * “this is a pleasure one gets in camp, prince.”
“this is dólokhov,” said prince andrew.
“this is for borís from me, for his outfit.”
“this is what i think. austria has been made a fool of, and she is
“this is what i want, my dear fellow,” said the count to the
this lowest-grade greeting, a look of anxiety and fear, as at the sight
this magnanimity bonaparte subsequently repaid by death.
this meant that tíkhon was not handing him the waistcoat he wanted.
this murderer and villain! we alone must avenge the blood of the just
this poetic and pure intimacy, were what my heart needed. but enough of
this reinforcement.
this resemblance he was exceedingly ugly. his features were like his
this same room was dimly lighted by two candles. on one small table tea
this! the chief news, about which all moscow gossips, is the death of
this uncertainty and hurry... there—they are shouting again, and
this very sentence about countess zúbova and this same laugh prince
this victory to the austrian court, now no longer at vienna (which was
this was not so but that on the contrary the french had run away. he
this was particularly noticeable on nesvítski’s usually laughing
this was the count’s favorite dance, which he had danced in his youth.
“this won’t do, princess; it won’t do,” said he, when princess
this young jacobin was not so terrible as his words suggested. all were
those hofs-kriegs-wurst-raths are! suvórov couldn’t manage them so
those kurágins and leading that sort of life. it suits you so
“those were extremes, no doubt, but they are not what is most
those who were guiding him.
those who were holding him under the armpits, and of his gray, curly,
those who were in the dimly lit reception room spoke in nervous
those women—mostly mothers—who, having once made up their minds,
though embracing her.
though he may perhaps outlive us all, as i sincerely hope he will...”
though not much time had passed since prince andrew had left russia, he
though politeness prevented his showing impatience, left the old woman
though she were grown up, was evidently very proud of this but at the
though the big hospitals and the houses in krems converted into military
thought: “i am going to save the army.”
thought independent of her sister-in-law’s words. in the midst of a
thought of his friend and how much he expected of him in the future.
thoughts.
thought, “seriously, i have long been thinking of it.... leading such
thoughts rather than the trend of the conversation—“and that’s a
thought that came into his mind was that today he had to be presented
thought. the minister drew the remaining papers together, arranged them
thought turned to her sister-in-law with a tender glance at her figure.
though what happened was due to chance and was independent of the
though what she said was quite just, perhaps for that very reason no one
thousand austrians, with a hundred thousand russians, were to operate in
thousand men breathlessly gazing at him and the regimental commander did
thousand men each of whom knew his place and his duty, had every button
threatened by the french) but at brünn. despite his apparently delicate
“three and a half miles, your majesty.”
three months ago, draw fresh moral strength from your look, so gentle,
through him, and again laughed his frigid laugh.
through his lorgnette, suddenly turned completely round toward the
throughout the whole cavalry division as váska denísov. cadet rostóv,
through that door was heard a noise of things being moved about, and
through the closed doors came the sound of difficult passages—twenty
through the door.
through the door came the regular hum of a lathe. the princess timidly
through the door came the sounds of kutúzov’s voice, excited and
through the door on tiptoe. he could not walk well on tiptoe and his
through the town of enns on both sides of the bridge.
thrown the reins of the snaffle bridle over the horse’s head. it was
thumb to the room where telyánin was sitting, he frowned and gave a
thumping the table.
thumping the table; “and ve must tie for our emperor, and zen all vill
tíkhon, at her husband, and at the footman who accompanied them.
tíkhon knew that neither the son’s arrival nor any other unusual
till she was twenty, and arranged her life so that her whole time was
till the general asked him to restore it. all his absent-mindedness and
till you can say to yourself that you have done all you are capable of,
time, anna mikháylovna sent someone to call her son, and went into the
time could not admit the idea of his hero being disgraced.
time in the shop.
times repeated—of a sonata by dussek.
times, the more impassioned he became in these moments of almost morbid
times unexpectedly interrupted. once he stopped it by shouting: “the
time to time he went out to ask: “hasn’t she come yet?” they
timókhin to the subaltern beside him.
tint in her complexion and especially in the color of her slender but
tipsy rage when a man does not know what he is saying. he saw that his
tiresome,” said natásha in a mortified voice that trembled slightly.
title: war and peace
to abandon the road connecting him with the troops arriving from russia,
to accept their services. he took the glove in silence from the
to adopt a jocular tone. but before he had finished he felt that his
to a footman dressed in knee breeches, shoes, and a swallow-tail coat,
to agree to the truce but also to offer terms of capitulation, and
to another. “how evidently he belongs to the best society,” said she
to a third; and the vicomte was served up to the company in the choicest
to a tune in which the weary musicians blundered, and while tired
to balance himself. one of the footmen who had stooped to pick up some
to be all right,” pierre concluded, and followed anna mikháylovna.
to be grew stronger, and he meekly followed anna mikháylovna who was
to behave here as you did in petersburg, you will end very badly; that
to be parted from her husband and be left alone in the country, in her
“to be quite frank, mary, i expect father’s character sometimes
to be so sent meant not only a reward but an important step toward
“to be sure, your excellency,” replied the architect.
to be talking to a staff officer of such importance. “it’s a lovely
to blame all round. well, what else do you want?...”
to bore him so much as that of his pretty wife. he turned away from
to control herself any longer, she jumped up and rushed from the room as
today, and that his excellency was not receiving anyone.
today. he has been here on leave and is taking nicholas back with him.
“today when i remembered that all these delightful associations
to dinner. i suppose he won’t go?” she continued, turning to the
to distraction! one learns many things then,” she added with a certain
to do but dwink. if we could only get to fighting soon. hullo, who’s
to dress in here; and that andrew had quite changed, and that kitty
to drive straight home. but the nearer he drew to the house the more he
to each new arrival anna pávlovna said, “you have not yet seen my
     * to err is human.
toes toward the general. the captain’s face showed the uneasiness of
to execute an order. the officer on duty, a handsome, elegantly dressed
to fathom what he has been pleased to conceal from us, the sooner will
   to feel that in this world there’s one
to fire the bridge, and now someone has gone and blundered; they are all
together as they approached it as if passing through a funnel. at last
together. the german, pahlen, has been sent to new york in america, to
to get himself killed. tell me what this wretched war is for?” she
to give you the love you do not feel, and your prayer would have been
to go by the back stairs, yet judging by anna mikháylovna’s air
to greet the young man.
to grunth to find prince bagratión. he heard the cannonade behind him
to hear the details.”
to help at any point where the conversation might happen to flag. as
to her.”
to her? i am so grateful to you that i would willingly sacrifice
to him about politics. prince andrew and the others gathered round these
to him, as you so well know how to be.”
to him fell against the rails with a groan. rostóv ran up to him with
to himself, for in him alone is truth and peace,” said she in a voice
to him straight out. let people think what they will of me, it’s
to his adjutant he ordered him to bring down the two battalions of the
to his beautiful sister, but yet more by the fact that in spite of
to his leg a narrow unsheathed sword (small, curved, and not like a real
to his people in germany; and he felt greatly offended when the butler
to indicate that he was about to say something witty. “buonaparte?”
to join some swedish forces at stralsund; how two hundred and twenty
to know as plain monsieur pierre, has become count bezúkhov and the
to kutúzov’s staff despite all anna mikháylovna’s endeavors and
told him, and said, “very good!” in a tone that seemed to imply that
told him the whole field could be seen. here he dismounted, and stopped
told him what he had seen.
told the count such vile, disgraceful things about us, especially about
to look under the uniforms he would have found on every man a clean
to make out the pattern.
to make scenes. this last consideration moved him.
to me all about it, and i will help you in everything.” pierre had
to move from right to left as if drawn by an invisible hand, and the
tomowwow,” muttered denísov.
        to my native land...”
tone and manner, here in moscow to anna mikháylovna whom he had placed
tone of entreaty and reproach that a carpenter uses to a gentleman who
tone of voice. “come here, my friend...” and she ominously tucked
tones.
tone. “what has been decided? they have decided that buonaparte has
“tonight, not later,” said he in a low voice, and he moved away
to notice him, and that his whole aim now was to test the cadet’s
took a horse and a cossack from a cossack commander, and hungry and
took her sister-in-law’s arm and drew her into another room.
took him by the shoulder, led him to the window, and began to talk to
took it...” he whispered just above telyánin’s ear.
took up her work.
tools laid ready to hand and shavings scattered around—all indicated
too, might have their own interests. but all he said was so prettily
to one another, and the old servant who was holding the count’s hand
too seemed strange; at one moment they looked impudently sly and at the
to pass the time.”
to petersburg, look round, and choose your profession. i will agree to
topic—making fun of the military men of the day, and more particularly
topic of the day: the illness of the wealthy and celebrated beau of
to pierre he said nothing, merely giving his arm a sympathetic squeeze
to please you...” said prince andrew. but immediately, noticing
to present the regiment in parade order, on the principle that it is
to prince murat,
“to prince vasíli. he was so kind. he at once agreed to everything,
to provide himself with some books for the campaign, and had spent some
to recollect something. prince andrew stepped forward from among the
to rest after their hard marches.
to retreat along the road from krems to olmütz, to unite with the
to rostóv’s face, and his sobs were audible.
to run out to her, and remained in her hiding place, watching—as
to seize hold of dólokhov’s shirt.
to show that they are not at all impatient for their food. the host and
to show the austrian general the wretched state in which the troops
to slip in over there.”
to start her gambols again and display her kittenish nature.
to stop and fire the bridge.”
to take their leave.
to tear open the veil of convention that separates a commander in chief
to tell you. there is a war now against napoleon. if it were a war for
to the accountant, “but he feels a pain in the pit of his stomach
“to the army.”
to the back of the house, to the room of the eldest princess.
to the devil, i’m busy!” he shouted to lavrúshka, who went up to
to the effect that the duc d’enghien had gone secretly to paris to
to the elderly lady, even betraying some impatience, she gave him an
“to the emperor.”
to the emperor francis; he remembered the minister of war, the polite
to the end, without raising his eyes at the opening of the door and the
to the farther side of the bridge and stopped the infantry. beside the
to the footman who was helping him on with his cloak, listened
to the frontier. our dear emperor has left petersburg and it is thought
to the front of the regiment and examined it from a distance.
to the imperial family as well as to all moscow and petersburg, and both
to their chatter. anatole kept on refilling pierre’s glass while
to their companies, the sergeants major began bustling (the greatcoats
to the last meeting between father and son, it was so touching that she
to then been in regular order and silent began to sway and stretch and
to the palace, however, an official came running out to meet him, and
to the prince and smiling amiably at him as if to show that political
to the prince that if these battalions went away, the guns would remain
to the ranks along which shots crackled now here and now there, drowning
to the ranks,” said the captain softly.
“to the right from the corridor, euer hochgeboren! there you will find
to the vienna-znaim road. bagratión was to make this march without
to the visitor she added: “she is my youngest girl.”
to the window.
to think of the impression he makes on others, but is occupied with
to think of the interview with his dying father which awaited him. he
to this occurrence than to the rest of what went on, having made up his
to time she smoothed the folds of her dress, and whenever the story
to turn the count’s heavy body toward the wall.
to twitch. the twitching increased, the handsome mouth was drawn to one
touched him was sent flying.
touching his arm, but when he saw pierre’s beaming face he gave him an
touch, “you promised me!”
     * to understand all is to forgive all.
to unload the muskets, explode the ammunition, and all return home as
toward him whom he may give me for husband.
toward the sofa she had indicated. as soon as anna mikháylovna had
to warn me of the humor my father is in. i do not allow myself to judge
to what he dreaded more than anything in the world—to ridicule; but
town knows?”
to you since dinner? hasn’t she?”
traces broke, and lungs were strained with shouting. the officers
trampled mud and gazed with that particular feeling of ill-will,
translators: louise and aylmer maude
traveling effects of prince andrew’s were in very good order: new,
treading heavily he stepped down from the carriage just as if those two
tread of the soldiers who were keeping step with him. he carried close
treetops and bluish gorges. the turrets of a convent stood out beyond a
trembled nervously; this was sufficient to cause his whole body to slip
trembling with emotion, solemnly holding up in both hands before her
triangles are equal; please note that the angle abc...”
triumphant, cheerful face.
triumphantly and gaily.
troops arriving from russia, he risked being forestalled on that road
troops below the hill and fell far short of the enemy, a little smoke
troops on the high ground above the bridge involuntarily asked himself
troops were ill-clad, exhausted, and had lost a third of their number
troops were running onto the bridge, was about to fire, but lannes
trot to escape from the poisoned atmosphere of these latrines.
trouvez là le mot pour rire,” * he said, as if strengthening his
truce and a capitulation, he detected a ruse and wrote the following
“true enough,” answered nesvítski; “two smart fellows could have
true gascon) and says: ‘i don’t recognize the world-famous austrian
“trust in his mercy!” and pointing out a small sofa for him to sit
trying not to lose a word of the speech which was incomprehensible to
trying only to be ahead of the others; but just at the bridge, not
trying through the dowager empress márya fëdorovna to secure it for
trying to get something out of the rich man?”
trying to give an expressive intonation to his voice.
trying to prove that the russians had surrendered and had fled all
“try to serve well and show yourself worthy,” added he, addressing
turned from captain timókhin again flitted over his face. he turned
turned out splendidly all the same,” he added, winking at véra.
turned round. the officer evidently had complete control of his face,
turned their horses away. the accountant stopped, facing the cossack,
turned to anna mikháylovna, answering her query by a movement of the
turned to her.
turned to his wife.
turned to speak to his daughter, the beautiful hélène.
turned toward her brother, and through her tears the loving, warm,
turned toward the women, and while the vehicle was passing at foot pace
turned to zherkóv. the nervous irritation aroused by the appearance
turning away from the girls, who at once assumed an air of inattention.
turning his partner round to her seat, he executed the final pas,
turning into the village already... they will have their buckwheat
turn now, but that he will do all he can to let his turn come as late as
turn spindles at home!’?” said shinshín, puckering his brows and
túshin’s guns had been intended to cannonade the valley, he was
túshin smiling shyly in his uncomfortable position, evidently wishing
túshin, who silent and smiling, shifting from one stockinged foot to
twinkled and looked out straight.
twitched its ears as the bayonets touched it, and snorted, spurting
two.
two.”
two battalions of the sixth chasseurs in fine order. before they had
two footmen, the princess’ and his own, stood holding a shawl and
two front teeth were missing that had been knocked out by the butt end
two hostile armies was all the more clearly felt.
“two, i think.”
two of the enemy’s shots had already flown across the bridge, where
“two such charming children. and really you appreciate them less than
two younger ones were embroidering: both were rosy and pretty and they
“ugh! i don’t like that fellow,” he said, regardless of the
“ugh. the hussars will get it hot!” said nesvítski; “they are
unable to ask for himself, he became chary of using his influence. but
unable to overcome or conceal his groundless antipathy to the man.
unaccustomed brightness, but he was looking not at his sister but over
un bâtard!”* she added, as if supposing that this translation of the
unchanging smile.
unchanging stonily severe expression; and, sitting down opposite the
unconscious little princess, he shook his head reprovingly and slammed
“und die ganze welt hoch!” *
under an invisible cap—to see what went on in the world. she was
under an obligation, assuming an air of much greater importance than he
understand?”
understand and state the patient’s condition.
understand him, but he did not speak it very well—“i bet fifty
understand him it was so much the worse for them—did not go up to the
understand how a man of his immense intellect can fail to see what is
understanding but not wishing to appear to do so. the princess as usual
understand it; i don’t in the least understand why men can’t live
understand the self-abnegation of our emperor who wants nothing for
understand... what a soul he has!”
understood all the difficulties of the russian army’s position, and
understood him. the old man got up and gave the letter to his son.
understood that she was being asked to entertain this young man, and
understood the revolution and quelled it, and so for the general good,
understood without naming.
“under the lower pillow.”
“und vivat die ganze welt!” though neither the german cleaning his
uneasily as if preparing to resent any slight that might be put upon the
unexpectedly kind and pleasant smile.
unfastened cloak, wide breeches hanging down in creases, and a crumpled
uniform living waves of soldiers, shoulder straps, covered shakos,
uniforms advanced toward the bridge at a run. smoke appeared again
uniforms and groups with horses, easily recognizable as artillery.
unlicked bear! a perfectly absurd and stupid fellow, and a gambler too,
unpleasant.
unpleasant things to everyone and upset them. let’s go to the
unwounded. the soldiers were ascending the hill breathing heavily, and
up and began watching the movements of our troops below, as plainly
up and turning away as if from a shameful aspersion. “it is not from
up!” came the company commander’s voice in jaunty tones. the
up for lost time.
up from both sides. everyone crowded to the window, the englishman in
up from the sofa, seized borís under the elbow in his quick, clumsy
up her downy little lip. “all the pretty women in society will be
up her sleeves still higher. pierre approached, looking at her in a
upon anyone, and it was clear that the kitten had settled down only to
upper lip and her half-open mouth—seemed to be her own special and
up their knapsacks with a jerk of their shoulders and pulling the straps
up the whole of her thin, sickly face and made it beautiful. her brother
up to denísov’s squadron and rode at a footpace not far from rostóv,
up to her.
up to the commander in chief, and presented arms.
up to their gallery, addressing the first violin:
up to the window of the first house, when a familiar voice called him by
up, was hastily writing at a tub turned bottom upwards. kozlóvski’s
urging of horses, and the swearing of soldiers, orderlies, and officers.
us?...” “ah! mary, you have got thinner?...” “and you have grown
us. but vienna is on the other side. no, the bridge has not yet been
used to be. don’t judge lise harshly,” she began. “she is so
used to say that a nap “after dinner was silver—before dinner,
ushering bolkónski in. “so you’re a messenger of victory, eh?
us nice news of a victory by the archduke karl or ferdinand (one
us talk business. have you been to the horse guards?”
us. to the left the horizon bounded by the adjacent wood. prince
usual.
usual in french, and as if after long self-restraint she wished to make
usurper, the whole nation will certainly throw itself into the arms
vacancies occur much more frequently in the foot guards. then just think
vanished from his face.
vanished. he waited for the first pause in the conversation, and then
varnish.
vasíli.
vasíli and the eldest princess. pierre concluded that this also was
vasíli, “but it is difficult for me to ask the emperor. i should
vasíli, his cheeks twitching more than ever.
vasíli in the anteroom. all the affectation of interest she had assumed
vasíli, it is very sad for both. ah, my dear friend, our divine
vasíli played a very despicable part in this affair and that he
vasíli severely. “you don’t know what you are doing.”
vasíli’s son anatole, whom they wish to reform by marrying him to
vasíli’s son, hippolyte, had come with mortemart, whom he introduced.
vasíli to anna mikháylovna. “go and take something, my poor anna
vasíli to anna pávlovna.
vasíli understood it as an expression of weariness.
vasíli went on, testily pushing away a little table without looking at
vasíli, who had grown thinner and paler during the last few days,
“ve must vight to the last tr-r-op of our plood!” said the colonel,
venetian mirror in the wall, and in her trodden-down shoes briskly
“véra,” she said to her eldest daughter who was evidently not a
véra with guilty, happy faces.
verses in the bosom of her dress close to her bony little chest, ran
very clever but eccentric, and a bore. the poor girl is very unhappy.
very decent town. you and i will travel comfortably in my calèche.”
very fine when he said that,” he remarked, repeating the words in
“very good,” answered nesvítski.
“very good!” said bagratión.
very important.”
“very interesting.”
“very likely it would be splendid, but it will never come about....”
“very lovely,” said prince andrew.
very muscular men, and on the night of the battle, having arrived
very poor, but for my own part at any rate, for the very reason that
“very,” said pierre.
very serious talk.”
“very silly,” said véra. “i am ashamed of you. secrets indeed!”
very strictly to social distinctions and rarely admitted even important
very trying,” said prince andrew, apparently speaking lightly of their
very well...”
“very well, very well...”
very wise, because you can take everything along with you—vodka and
vicomte and from the vicomte to their hostess. in the first moment of
vicomte continued, with the air of a man who, in a matter with which
vicomte who was continuing his story.
victory. his majesty will no doubt wish to see you, but not today. i
victory, what effect would that have on the general course of events?
vienna as i told you. very well. next day, which was yesterday, those
vienna by the austrian hofkriegsrath, the sole and almost unattainable
vienna. kutúzov with his transport had still to march for some days
views by this french sentence. “c’est bien pour un garçon de rien
vile, infamous paper, but i thought the thing was invalid.”
“vile woman!” shouted the princess, darting unexpectedly at anna
village. “very good!” said bagratión in reply to the officer’s
visible as if but a stone’s throw away, and the movements of the
visit mademoiselle george; that at her house he came upon bonaparte,
visitor alluded to, though she had already heard about the cause of
visitor. “and to think it is cyril vladímirovich bezúkhov’s son
visitor. “he is a son of márya ivánovna dólokhova, such a worthy
visitors on his right. midway down the long table on one side sat the
vividly imagined what awaited it and the part he would have to
vladímir medal and ribbon? but now, even if they do get peppered, the
vladímirovich bezúkhov, countess rostóva sat for a long time all
vladímirovich bezúkhov. if he will not assist his godson—you know
vladímirovich bezúkhov’s house. “my dear borís,” said the
vladímirovich is my mother’s second cousin. he’s also my bóry’s
vodka a quarter of an hour before, he saw everywhere the same rapid
voice.
voice, and lieutenant telyánin, a small officer of the same squadron,
voice, opening his door.
voice suddenly shrieked: “but if i hear that you have not behaved like
voices were but feebly heard amid the uproar and one saw by their faces
voice. “there was no one else in the room except myself. so that if it
voice which expressed joy for himself, severity for the regiment, and
“voilà l’agrément des camps, monsieur le prince,” * said the
volume you have sent me and which has such success in moscow. yet since
votre victoire n’est pas des plus victorieuses.” *
“vous voyez le malheureux mack,” he uttered in a broken voice.
vreatening russia and zat ze safety and dignity of ze empire as vell
     wafting sweet music o’er the lea,
waistcoat. “it’s the sauté, most likely,” she added with a smile.
“wait a bit and listen. it’s fine!” answered sídorov, who was
“wait a bit, he is not drunk yet! a bottle here,” said anatole, and
“wait a bit, here’s a letter for you,” said the old man suddenly,
“wait a moment, i’ll get my work.... now then, what are you
“wait!” cried dólokhov, hammering with the bottle on the window
waited in expectation of an important order for an expensive funeral.
“wait, haven’t you dropped it?” said rostóv, picking up the
“wait, i have not finished...” he said to prince andrew, seizing
waiting for—some important relation who has not yet arrived, or a dish
waiting to see what he would do. he stood a little while before the
“wait—just a word! when he has been transferred to the guards...”
walk to meet him. his face with its long mustache was serious as always,
walls hung round with persian carpets. the part of the room behind the
wants to go to the war,” replied pierre, addressing the princess
“wants to turn on the other side,” whispered the servant, and got up
want to dance well. her enormous figure stood erect, her powerful arms
war and peace
war, even here amid fieldwork and the calm of nature—which townsfolk
war has deprived me of one of the associations nearest my heart. i mean
war or politics but related to high society, to certain women, and to
wars,” he said.
was.
was about to run on, thinking that the farther he went to the front
was about twenty-five. like all infantry officers he wore no mustache,
was about, went across the room to where pierre was standing and gave
was accustomed to understand him. he led him to the desk, raised the
“was a political necessity, and it seems to me that napoleon
was a stroke of genius. prince auersperg feels his dignity at stake and
was at home last, and, having assured himself that they had not, he
was a young horse telyánin had sold to rostóv.)
was charming... you are very kind... countess apráksina...” was heard
was coming, and turning to her mother:
was diverted by the desperate shrieks of the woman in the vehicle. an
was dulled by imbecility and a constant expression of sullen
was fully described: prince murat et tout le tremblement... you see that
was great on the bridge of arcola, and in the hospital at jaffa where he
was happy. “left... left... left...” he seemed to repeat to himself
was holding fast to plait, would allow.
was immediately surrounded by courtiers on all sides. everywhere he
was impossible to see it clearly with the naked eye. our right flank was
was in the way and was the only one who did not notice the fact. most of
“was kutúzov well? when had he left krems?” and so on. the emperor
was necessary for him to go to the count at all, still less why he had
was “not a whit worse than you or i.” at dinner the prince usually
“wasn’t i telling you to fire the bridge, when inflammable material
“wasn’t it fine when those germans gave us lifts! you just sit still
was only redder than usual. with his shaggy head thrown back like birds
was particularly pleasant at that moment. they had reached the battery
was rapidly and excitedly talking to a french grenadier. “hark to him
was rather out of place in this brilliant society, the whole company had
was saying.
was spitting blood. a bullet had evidently hit him in the throat or
was standing beside the princess, and they were both speaking in excited
was stricter.”
was talking came up to listen. berg, oblivious of irony or indifference,
was tall and fair, and his calm and handsome face had regular, delicate
“was that grapeshot?” he asked denísov.
was there on the hilltop, and kept constantly looking at the patches
was true and appropriate, yet, strange to say, everyone—the visitors
was true. no one had taken any notice, for everyone knew the sensation
was very valuable. officers who approached him with disturbed
was writing. “i’ll do it.”
watched her cousin who was going to join the army, with such passionate
watched him. she smiled, hid her face in her handkerchief, and remained
watched him smilingly, and he rode off by the winding path down the
watchful eye on the young man who so alarmed her, noticed that he was
watching and it creaked very slightly as she disappeared behind it.
“watching over his interests” meant, but he decided that all these
watch the change in the tone and manners of the mammas burdened by
waters of the distant danube shone. and fairer still were the faraway
waving it above his head cried:
way, and, blushing far more than borís, began to speak with a feeling
way,” he added in russian—but pronouncing the word with a french
way!... let us pass!... stop there, you devil with the cart! i’ll hack
weak human understanding cannot grasp, it seems to me rather useless to
“we all have our weaknesses,” said kutúzov smiling and walking away
“weally! and i’ve been losing, bwother. i lost yesterday like a
weapon) and looked now at the superior officers and now back at the men
“we are to spend the night in znaim.”
weariness of tone, “it is almost impossible for me to do what you
weary faces, were sitting at the table eating and drinking.
weary, making his way past the baggage wagons, rode in search of the
weary of it and it was not at all what he wanted. he turned away and
weather, and countess apráksina. now and then they glanced at one
weather. “the weather is beautiful, princess; and besides, in moscow
“we don’t interfere with you and berg.”
‘we don’t love people so much for the good they have done us, as
we had not religion to console us life would be very sad. why do you
we have fully concentrated forces of nearly seventy thousand men with
“we have orders to drive you off here, and we shall drive you off,”
“we here in moscow are more occupied with dinner parties and scandal
weight.
weight they were carrying were too much for them.
we know where we are. and what do you think of the boulogne expedition?
welcome for the approaching chief.
we let our feeble human minds roam, the better we shall please god, who
welfare of his soul is at stake. ah, it is awful: the duties of a
well.”
well.”
“well, all i can make out is that everything is abominable,
well!” and he turned to go.
well and, in particular, drinks well. “so do come and dine with us!”
“well, and to whom did you apply about bóry?” asked the countess.
“well, aren’t you ashamed of yourself, captain túshin?” he
“well, au revoir, bolkónski! au revoir, prince! come back early to
“well, au revoir! good-by! you hear her?”
“well done!... fine fellow!... there’s a bet for you!... devil take
“well done, lads!” said prince bagratión.
well educated and clever. this is all that his foreign education has
well enough to be sure that this will not turn your head, but it imposes
we’ll fire off some cannon! but this sort of thing seems done
“well, fwiend? so you’ve smelt powdah!” shouted váska denísov
“well, good-by, prince,” said he to bagratión. “my blessing, and
“well? has he been degraded into a field marshal, or into a soldier?
“well, have it so, and you talked a lot of nonsense to him and must
“well, have you finished?” said he to kozlóvski.
“well!” he said, turning to his wife.
“well, he’s really a good fellow, one can serve under him,” said
“well, how is he?”
“well, i am taking it off,” replied lavrúshka’s voice.
“well, if you do, so much the better, and you can go back to her!”
“well, i have got all i need into packs for two horses,” said
“well, is it true that it’s peace and capitulation?” asked
“well, i suppose it is time we were at table?” said márya
“well, i think it is. the bigwigs here think so too, but they
“well, it’s as you like,” said the staff captain. “and what has
“well, it seems that no one has noticed,” thought rostóv. and this
well known, so much appreciated by everyone. the other day at the
“well, let’s go and sing ‘the brook.’”
“well, little countess? what a sauté of game au madère we are to
“well, madam,” he began, stooping over the book close to his
“we’ll make you dance as we did under suvórov...,” * said
“well, maybe!” said prince andrew. “go, másha; i’ll come
“well, michael ivánovich, our bonaparte will be having a bad time
“well, michael mítrich, sir?” he said, addressing one of the
“well, mon cher,” said the vicomte, having seated himself beside
“well, my boy, you’ll get along wherever you go—foot or
“well, my dear?” asked the countess.
“well, my dear?” said prince vasíli, taking her hand and bending it
well, never mind, here you are.”
“well, never mind; i only...”
“well now, gentlemen,” said bilíbin, “bolkónski is my guest in
“well, now, good-by!” he gave his son his hand to kiss, and embraced
“well now, isn’t she a fool!” shouted the prince, pushing the book
“well, now tell me about your exploits,” said he.
“well, now you’ve done what you wanted,” put in nicholas—“said
“well, of course, of course!”
well, only a little bruised just here,” he added, pointing with a
“well, prince?” asked kozlóvski.
“well, prince, so genoa and lucca are now just family estates of the
“well, really, catiche! can’t you understand! you are so
“well, really, mamma! why should you? what is there to be surprised
“well,” said she, “how’s my cossack?” (márya dmítrievna
“well, stand us some of your herb vodka, túshin,” it said.
“well, talk as much as you can, anyway. he has a passion for giving
“well, thank god! we’ve been sitting here too long!”
“well, that is hardly a sufficient reason, mamma...”
“well, that’s all right,” continued the regimental commander. “a
“well, that’s only till the first engagement.”
“well, then go off to your buonaparte! mademoiselle bourienne,
“well, then, i won’t; only forgive me, sónya!” he drew her to him
“well, then, let’s be quick. borís, come here,” said natásha.
“well, then, old chap, mon très honorable alphonse kárlovich,”
“well there certainly are disgusting people,” thought rostóv as he
“well, this is strange! do you suppose i... who could think?... i know
“well, what about it?” said he to denísov. “it won’t come to a
“well, why are you going to the war?” asked pierre.
“well, why don’t you speak? whom have you got there dressed up as a
“well, young cavalryman, how is my rook behaving?” he asked. (rook
“well, young man?” he said with a sigh, and from under his lifted
“well, your excellency, what? your excellency! but what about your
“well, you see, count, i want some money.”
“well, you see, my dear princess and cousin, catherine semënovna,”
“well, you’ve told me nothing new,” and the old man repeated,
“we may as well go back,” said the son in french.
    * “we must let him off the u!”
“we must let him see amelie, she’s exquisite!” said one of
went further in among the plants and threw down the doll. “closer,
went into the reception room familiar to pierre, with two italian
went in with nicholas. after them other couples followed, filling the
went on to the game without omitting a single dish or one of the wines.
went to the carriage.
went, with the smile of a coquettish girl, which at one time probably
we parted. why are we not together as we were last summer, in your big
wept too. they wept because they were friends, and because they were
were being set out for eighty people; and looking at the footmen, who
were bringing in silver and china, moving tables, and unfolding damask
were children. you might think that i... i understand, quite understand.
were crossing themselves. rostóv no longer looked at the colonel, he
were evidently flurried and intimidated by the directions and shouts of
were expecting márya dmítrievna akhrosímova, known in society as le
we’re getting it still worse,” said nesvítski. “but sit down and
“we’re going into action, gentlemen!”
were, “high-sounding words which have long been discredited. who does
were near him. everybody said that buonaparte himself was at braunau.”
were nicholas and sónya, the niece. sónya was a slender little
were not in very good condition), and instantly the squares that had up
were of the same age and both handsome fellows, though not alike. borís
were only 217 sick and stragglers. everything was in good order except
were really given, but that prince bagratión tried to make it appear
were saying. suddenly, however, he was struck by a voice coming from the
were sitting at embroidery frames while a third read aloud. it was the
were sitting at the table on which a plan was spread out.
were sitting on some feather beds. evidently these fugitives were
were talking and listening too eagerly and too naturally, which was why
were the potëmkins, suvórovs, and orlóvs germans? no, lad, either you
were therefore awkward.
were there,” thought rostóv. “in myself alone and in that sunshine
were to be severe with her and to forbid it ... goodness knows what they
“we’re to go into action, gentlemen! mack has surrendered with his
were to land at naples, and how a total force of five hundred thousand
were using their ramrods, others putting powder on the touchpans or
were waiting for them to come out.
“we shall be late.”
“we shall see.”
“wetched business,” he muttered to himself. “how much is left in
“wetched!” he muttered, throwing down a purse with some gold in it.
“we’ve got to it at last—why did you not tell me about it
“we’ve said good-by. go!” he suddenly shouted in a loud, angry
“we will talk of it later,” said anna pávlovna with a smile.
we women, prince,” and she smiled tenderly, “always know how to say
“what about capitulation?”
“what about your master?” he asked lavrúshka, denísov’s orderly,
“what a charming creature your younger girl is,” said the visitor;
“what a clever man your father is,” said she; “perhaps that is why
“what a dandy you are today!” said nesvítski, looking at
“what a delightful woman this little princess is!” said prince
“what a fine fellow you are, friend!” said the cossack to a convoy
“what an extraordinary genius!” prince andrew suddenly exclaimed,
“what a nice figure the policeman must have cut, my dear!” shouted
“what a pity you weren’t at the arkhárovs’ on thursday. it was so
“what are you doing!” she cried vehemently. “he is dying and you
“what are you making such a noise about over there?” márya
“what are your commands, little countess?”
“what?” asked the commander.
“what a treasure that dmítri is,” added the count with a smile when
what a voice she has; though she’s my daughter, i tell the truth
“what brings you here?” cried the officers turning to the newcomer.
what can be done with two hundred and thirty rubles! i even manage to
“what can one say about it?” replied the prince in a cold, listless
what chance has michael kutúzov? no, my dear boy,” he continued,
“what devils these quartermasters are! see, the fifth company is
what do we, i mean the austrian court, care for your victories? bring
“what do you thank me for?”
whatever.
“whatever is this? this!” he shouted and stood still. “commander
whatever the import of his work. it was not the question “what for?”
whatever we may say about the soul going to the sky... we know there is
“what for? i don’t know. i must. besides that i am going....” he
“what good are they? they’re led about just for show!” remarked
“what have you done to mlle schérer? she will be quite ill now,”
“what? here? but why did they not blow up the bridge, if it was
what he was about; yet they beat him à plate couture,*(3) and where
what he was laughing at. everything her father did inspired her with
“what is bad, father?”
what is beyond death, none of us would be afraid of it. that’s so,
“what is it?” asked the countess, startled; but seeing by her
“what is it, dear?”
“what is it?” he asked.
“what is it? what?” asked both princesses when they saw for a moment
“what is it you are afraid of, lise? i don’t understand,” said he.
“what is that?” asked the countess as if she did not know what the
“what is the commander in chief doing here?” he asked.
“what is the matter with you, my dear?” she said crossly to the maid
what is there? who is there?—there beyond that field, that tree, that
“what is the something?” asked he.
what it must be for her, poor thing, after what she has been used to,
“what manners! i thought they would never go,” said the countess,
“what, monsieur pierre... do you consider that assassination shows
“what news, sir?” asked the officer, evidently anxious to start a
“what next? have you gone mad?... no one would let you!... why, you go
“what next?” the princess interrupted, smiling sardonically and not
“what? occupied? vienna occupied?”
“what? revolution and regicide a grand thing?... well, after that...
“what? saw the real mack? with hands and feet?”
“what shall we sing?” she said.
    * “what’s he singing about?”
what she was holding in her reticule.) “so you promise?”
“what’s it all about? why, the french have crossed the bridge that
what’s one to do?” and, having given his order, he returned to
what’s one to do, my dear?”
“what’s that that has fallen?” asked the accountant with a naïve
“what’s the good of denying it, my dear? our dear countess was too
“what’s the matter?” exclaimed prince andrew standing still in
“what’s the matter? i only congratulated them,” said zherkóv.
what’s the matter with you? you must be ill to shiver like that,” he
“what’s to be done? she’s pretty! i will do everything. make your
what was approaching in the distance from the opposite side—the blue
what we fathers have to put up with.... is this princess of yours
“what? what? how dare you? what?” said telyánin.
“what will happen now?” thought she.
“what would it cost you to say a word to the emperor, and then he
“what would you have me do?” he said at last. “you know i did all
“what would you have, my dear fellow?” answered pierre, shrugging
“what you said just now was splendid!” said his partner julie.
wheels and the sensation of victory. then he began to imagine that
when anna mikháylovna returned from count bezúkhov’s the money, all
“when are you starting?” he asked.
when borís appeared at his door pierre was pacing up and down his room,
“when he looked at my feet, friend... well, thinks i...”
when he needs repose? worldly conversation at a moment when his soul is
“when her confinement is due, send to moscow for an accoucheur.... let
when he saw the minister seated at a large table reading some papers
when i say she’ll be a singer, a second salomoni! we have engaged an
when natásha ran out of the drawing room she only went as far as the
when prince andrew entered the study the old man in his old-age
when prince andrew left the palace he felt that all the interest
when prince andrew reached the room prepared for him and lay down in a
when rostóv went back there was a bottle of vodka and a sausage on the
when she began to speak passed through such transitions as she herself
when she had seen her guests out.
when she said this, he did not reply and only bowed, but again everybody
when she saw pierre enter. though he was certainly rather bigger than
when she took her seat opposite and beamed upon him also with her
“when speaking to the emperor, try as far as you can to praise the way
when starting on a journey or changing their mode of life, men capable
when telyánin had finished his lunch he took out of his pocket a double
when the eager but misrepeated words had reached their destination in
when the military governor had gone, prince vasíli sat down all alone
when the twenty minutes had elapsed and the time had come for the old
when they again heard an unexpectedly violent whistling which suddenly
when they drink, pressing his spurs mercilessly into the sides of his
“when would you like them, your excellency?” asked dmítri. “allow
where.
“where are headquarters?”
“where are you going?” asked an infantry officer who was eating an
“where are you off to?” he said suddenly to prince andrew who had
“where? at bykov’s, at the rat’s... i knew it,” replied a piping
“where have you put it, wostóv?”
“where is dólokhov?” asked kutúzov.
“where is the commander in chief?” asked bolkónski.
where’s the victory?”
“where the devil have the leg bands been shoved to?” said an
where the rivals suddenly recognized one another; and the ladies looked
“where to?”
“where to?”
whether he was speaking in jest or in earnest. “ah, your excellency!
whether what he said was very witty or very stupid. he was dressed in
which a faint smile forgot to fade though his features now expressed
which at least half of them would be left on the field. after passing a
which did not leave his eager face. “hoch oestreicher! hoch russen!
which forms an impenetrable veil between us and the eternal? let us
which had disappeared, but at french infantry who had come into the
which had lost all dignity, and at the twitching cheeks of prince
which he found himself. anna pávlovna was obviously serving him up as
which he held the hilt of his naked saber, looked just as it usually
which indicates that patience is exhausted.
which intimated that he knew what he was about and if others did not
which it is difficult to justify.”
which seemed to say that he was not blaming anyone, but could not help
which seemed to stand rather than lie down on his massive shoulders. he
which several others joined but which bored pierre. when the music began
which she neither wished, nor could, nor considered it necessary, to
which showed that he only understood the meaning of his words after he
which stood on her right. it reflected a weak, ungraceful figure and
which the cadet under fire for the first time had experienced.
which to attack and defeat the enemy should he cross the lech. also,
which was littered with books and papers. the princess was as untidy as
which was offered him. telyánin for some reason had been transferred
while in the rostóvs’ ballroom the sixth anglaise was being danced,
while the count was being turned over, one of his arms fell back
while the couples were arranging themselves and the musicians tuning up,
while these conversations were going on in the reception room and the
while the youngest, the one with the mole, who was of a cheerful and
whispered, and a shudder ran down her back.
whispered to one another, casting significant looks at him with a kind
whispering, and betraying by every word and movement that they none
whispers.
whispers, and, whenever anyone went into or came from the dying man’s
whistling, singing, and hissing continually around them. he spoke in the
white foam from his bit, tramping the planks of the bridge with his
white foam on the waves of the enns, an officer, in a cloak and with
white horse, was prince bagratión. prince andrew stopped, waiting for
white one, the white one!”
whites glittering and rolling as he waved his sheathed saber in a small
white teeth fiercely and spurring his black thoroughbred arab, which
who also enjoyed the famous actress’ favors, and that in his presence
who always solved questions that seemed to him perplexing by deciding
who amuses himself in this sensible manner! and he was said to be so
who, angry and frightened, strode energetically along with downcast
who, as they passed through in their ball dresses with diamonds and
who came to congratulate, and who constantly succeeded one another in
who evidently understood his case and wished him nothing but good,
(who gazed with curiosity at the soldiers) were not russians, the
who gives himself the airs of a monarch.”
who had evidently just arrived, entered quickly, slamming the door.
who had grown old in society and at court. he went up to anna pávlovna,
who had him under observation, interrupted:
who had lolled in anna pávlovna’s easy chairs and with half-closed
who had spoken to him on behalf of her only son borís on the evening of
who had wished to stop the affair ran to a corner of the room and threw
who, jesting and laughing, stared at their strange foreign enemies.
who kept her waiting some minutes. “don’t you wish to serve me? then
who kissed his hand.
whole army.”
whole body jerked at each step. the eldest princess followed him, and
whole dining hall, and last of all the children, tutors, and governesses
whole set. yes, you’re all right! choose what you will; it’s all the
whole tenor of his thoughts instantaneously changed; the battle seemed
who, liking work, knew how to do it, and despite his indolence would
who looked at her, after being in her company and talking to her a
whom all the regiment knew for a rogue.
whom did you apply?”
whom he had promised to take home.
whom he was again talking with the same involuntary smile. sónya wore
whom i mention this, because i like you.”
“whom shall i announce?”
who on kutúzov’s staff in charge of the provisioning of the russian
who ran downstairs and looked over from the halfway landing.
“who sacrificed everything for him,” chimed in the princess, who
“whose company?” asked prince bagratión of an artilleryman standing
“who should it be? you yourself told him to come. it’s the
“who’s that curtseying there? cadet miwónov! that’s not wight!
“who’s that running on the middle of the bridge? to the right! come
     who still is thinking but of thee!
who stood in the midst of the group, without a coat, and with his fine
“who told you that? who?” cried the prince. “suvórov!” and he
who was a secretary to the embassy, bolkónski was already acquainted.
who was kissing her hand, “you’re feeling dull in moscow, i daresay?
“who was that? the military governor himself?” was being asked at
why.
“why a blue coat? off with it... sergeant major! change his coat...
“why are you going? i know you think it your duty to gallop back to
“why are you so glum?” asked nesvítski noticing prince andrew’s
“why didn’t you capture one, just one, marshal for us?”
“why didn’t you mention it, prince? i would have offered you
“why did you not succeed in impressing on bonaparte by diplomatic
“why don’t you speak, cousin?” suddenly shrieked the princess so
“why do you say this young man is so rich?” asked the countess,
“why, have you too much money?”
“why no, my dear fellow,” said the astonished narrator, shrugging
“why run risks, captain? you should dismount,” he said.
“why should i mind monsieur pierre being here?” exclaimed the little
“why talk nonsense? say what you want.”
“why, this is a palace!” she said to her husband, looking around
“why,” thought prince andrew, “that’s the captain who stood up
wider than ours, and it was plain that they could easily outflank us
wife and her tall cap with its light-blue ribbons, and busily filled
wild virgin pine forest, and far away on the other side of the enns the
will all the same never be like those petersburg young men.”
will be cut off,” said he.
will begin. and he says buonaparte is in braunau! shows you’re a fool.
will be my teacher...” and lowering his big arm he offered it to the
will certainly be granted. pierre will get everything as the legitimate
will come!”
will come back in a rage. will you have coffee?”
willing, are going to die in the regiment, we prize the honor of the
will in pierre’s favor are among the count’s papers, then, my dear
will just be time.”
will not reach your regiment before peace is concluded, or you will
will not rest until they have gained their end, and are prepared if
“will they burn the bridge or not? who’ll get there first? will they
will they cross pomerania?”
window and from dólokhov’s back. anatole stood erect with staring
window. nesvítski, moving his moist lips as he chewed something, and
window sill.
window sill, with a pale but radiant face.
windows opening into the conservatory, with its large bust and full
wind to carry away. a pleasant humming and whistling of bullets were
wine with dignity and looking to the count for approval.
wings, hoping before evening and before the arrival of the emperor to
wing with the other, prince andrew met mademoiselle bourienne smiling
wiping them on the sleeves of their greatcoats. all their faces were
wish?”
wished both to rebuke him (for daring to speak as he had done of a man
wished to say something more, but at that moment prince vasíli and his
wished to see the regiment just in the state in which it had been on
wished to take another seat so as not to trouble the lady, and also to
wishes; that is my only reason for being here. i came simply to help him
wishes to stay with me, let him... he’ll be of use here if he’s a
wishes to test me!” his heart contracted and the blood rushed to his
wishing to find out where the commander in chief was, he rode up to
wishing to rid himself of this staff officer’s company, “please
wishing to show her connections and knowledge of what went on in
wish to be seen in that mood, for hearing footsteps in the passage he
with a bashful and awkward gesture not at all like a military salute
with a bottle wrapped in a napkin passed him by. he frowned, trying to
with a clear, bright expression, as if asking them to notice how calmly
with a decanter on a tray as “my dear” and “my sweet,” asked
with a decorous smile of self-satisfaction at being able clearly to
with a distressed face left the room to find sónya.
with a friendly smile.
with a look of nervous agitation such as pierre had never before seen on
with a look the significance of which could not be understood by mortal
with a mournful expression.
with an enormous mouth, hardly refraining from laughing, “i felt like
with an f, as a village elder of mine writes in his reports. she is rich
with anything in regard to her; and that always will be so in whatever
with a pleasant feeling that there was something à la louis xv in the
with a sense of relief at having performed a vexatious duty and did not
with a sigh. this might have been taken as an expression of sorrow
with a sinking heart—watching the bridge and the hussars in the bright
with a thoroughly attractive woman, her defect—the shortness of her
with a wink, and passed on followed by another, an old man.
with carts that it was impossible to get by in a carriage. prince andrew
with enjoyment, gazing with ever-increasing amiability at the other
with evident pleasure.
with exaggerated politeness.
with frightened eyes; the second assumed precisely the same expression;
with gossip,” he continued. “just now they are talking about you and
with great difficulty he managed to get to his horse, and shouting
with grief, though he tried hard to hide it in order not to sadden his
with her beautiful eyes full of tears at the door through which prince
with her to the side of the room where stood the high bedstead with its
with him remained in his room; a small box, a large canteen fitted
with himself and those around him, his smile and glance were brighter
with him. there now, sídorov!”
with his cap on the back of his black head and a cloak hanging jauntily
with his daughter, princess mary, and her companion, mademoiselle
with his foot.
with his glittering, black eyes at rostóv.
with his small hand.
with his thin legs, went up to kutúzov.
within grapeshot range now.”
within half an hour adjutants had been sent in various directions with
with it hidden for awhile; then looking up and seeing pierre she
with jests and to come to business. he involuntarily looked round at the
with lighted tapers in their hands, slowly and solemnly conducting the
“with my father and sister, remember,” said prince andrew gently.
with none of the embarrassment so commonly shown by young men in their
with one another. again the footmen rushed about, chairs scraped, and
with one leg crossed high above the other. his cheeks, which were so
without an inner struggle; “at such a moment as this one must think
without at all noticing that his involuntary smile had stabbed the heart
without boasting that it was a little better than at ulm...”
without eating.”
without his boots (he had given them to the canteen keeper to dry),
without his noticing it the feeling of offense immediately turned into
without laughing, but could not resist looking at him: so to be out of
without losing step, his whole powerful body turning flexibly. it was as
without omitting her duties as hostess, threw significant glances from
without support. prince bagratión turned to the officer and with his
without taking any notice of him although they were now meeting for the
without turning their heads glanced at one another, curious to see their
without wars. how is it that we women don’t want anything of the kind,
with particular courtesy ushered prince andrew before him along a
with pleasure to his own voice. “all i can say, general, is that if
with prince bagratión’s detachment.”
with rapid rhythmic whistle flew over the heads of the horsemen and fell
with red light like a russian church during evening service. under
with shifting eyes but eyebrows still raised, telyánin handed him the
with shinshín. berg gave his arm to véra. the smiling julie karágina
with silver plate, two turkish pistols and a saber—a present from
with so and-so,’ and then i take a cab and go myself two, three, or
with something more than curiosity and sympathy. he noticed that they
with such exactitude that nesvítski could not help laughing. kutúzov
with tender smiles was saying to véra that love is not an earthly but
with the expression with which people compliment their host at a ball.
with the flirtatiousness of a handsome youth at sónya and the young
with the gentle, patronizing intonation natural to a man of importance
with the hussar colonel on his left and shinshín and the other male
with the rank of lieutenant; but as it is i receive two hundred and
with the river between himself and the main body of the french. on the
with the same expression on his full, cheerful, clean-shaven face, the
with the self-satisfaction of a man on parade, he stepped lightly with
with these words she greeted prince vasíli kurágin, a man of high
with the strict formality of his house. at that moment the great clock
with thoughts and anxieties as to be oblivious of his presence. he
with trembling hands, threw his body across the saddle, righted himself,
with upraised arms.
with us.”
with you alone! god knows how long we may again be parted. you are not
“with you i will be quite frank,” said anna mikháylovna. “there
with you. may i?” he added in a low voice so as not to disturb the
woman, but there, just fancy! those three got hold of a bear somewhere,
    * “woman is man’s companion.”
woman. with a slight rustle of her white dress trimmed with moss
women.
women.”
women are when you see them in their true colors! when you meet them
women, ‘women and wine’ i don’t understand!”
wonderful classic beauty of her figure, his face on the contrary
won’t go.”
“won’t you come over to the other table?” suggested anna
wood.
word; and he sat down at the nearest table.
word or slight rearrangement kept the conversational machine in steady,
words: “morning dawned, the sun was rising,” and concluding: “on
words), others were eating bread; the more severely wounded looked
word that hardenburg says, or haugwitz either. this famous prussian
word would effectively prove to prince vasíli the invalidity of his
work and study. and if pierre was often struck by andrew’s lack
workbag.”
work nearer to her.
world!”
world a quite different atmosphere, careless, lighthearted, and
worse, and it is absolutely necessary to prepare him if he is so ill.
worse than others.”
“wostóv, deah fellow, just see how much there is left and shove the
“wostóv, you’ve not been playing schoolboy twicks...”
would again have risen had not the prince still held her fast, “though
would appear as he passed the commander.
would be transferred to the guards at once?” said she.
would find himself in the position of mack at ulm. if kutúzov decided
would have taken the icon, but she stopped him. andrew understood,
would i not give now to be unmarried! you are the first and only one to
would magnanimously extend the hand of reconciliation.
would not see us for a whole fortnight. i know it was then he wrote this
“would not such a meeting be too trying for him, dear anna
“would not your excellency like a little refreshment?” he said.
would take place on this side of it...
wounded, and one knocked out,” he added, unable to restrain a happy
wounded had been abandoned on the other side of the danube with a letter
wounded under him and his own arm slightly grazed by a bullet. as a mark
wrath. having snapped at an officer for an unpolished badge, at another
wringing her hands.
“write to her and let me know how her father looks at the matter. au
write, told rostóv the contents of his letter.
writing, so that his quill spluttered and squeaked. “if you have
written, “still, i should not cry, but you can’t... no one can
xvii, for the queen, or for madame elizabeth? nothing!” and he became
yards was all that separated them. the enemy ceased firing, and that
years older than her sister and behaved already like a grown-up person),
years ... then i will ask for your hand.”
“yes.”
“yes, and even tomorrow,” replied her brother.
“yes, and he is over sixty. i hear the count no longer recognizes
“yes and no mistake!” cried denísov. “you worked like wegular
“yes, a regular volcano,” said the count. “takes after me! and
“yes, bring some.”
“yes, but between ourselves,” said the princess, “that is a
“yes, but you are not the only one. there are your sisters...”
“yes, dmítri, clean ones, please,” said the countess, sighing
“yes, father, i have come to you and brought my wife who is
“yes, i am, but please don’t let us do like that.... in another four
“yes: ideas of robbery, murder, and regicide,” again interjected an
“yes, if having obtained power, without availing himself of it to
“yes, i have heard of his scheme for perpetual peace, and it is very
“yes, i knew it long ago but had forgotten. i knew that i could expect
“yes, immediately, immediately! hey, who’s there?” he called out
“yes, indeed,” replied the princess with a sigh. “so he may have
“yes, it is all very horrid,” interrupted pierre, “very horrid.”
“yes, it’s a nice purse. yes, yes,” he said, growing suddenly
“yes, it seems he is ill. people are always disturbing him,”
“yes, it’s from julie,” replied the princess with a timid glance
“yes, i was a fool! i still believed in people, loved them, and
“yes, i was brought up quite differently,” remarked the handsome
“yes, just the same. though i don’t know what your opinion will
“yes, let’s go in and i will get myself a roll and some cheese,”
“yes, my dear, this is a great loss for us all, not to speak of you.
“yes, now you may be glad!” said she; “this is what you have
“yes, one is afraid,” continued the first speaker, he of the
“yes, please do,” answered the general, and he repeated the order
“yes, please do,” said rostóv.
“yes,” replied a footman in a bold loud voice, as if anything were
“yes,” said rostóv as if it cost him a great deal to utter the
“yes,” said the countess when the brightness these young people had
“yes, so it is, so it is,” said the general angrily, lowering the
yesterday’s order. have you got it, denísov?”
“yes, that all happened!” he said, and, smiling happily to himself
“yes, the austrian prince who built that castle was no fool. it’s
“yes, the ham was just delicious...” answered another with a loud
“yes, these verses nicholas wrote himself and i copied some others,
“yes, they are splendid, splendid youngsters,” chimed in the count,
“yes, yes, go and tell them to get it ready,” she answered,
“yes, yes; just so! bring it. give it to the countess.”
“yes, yes,” muttered bagratión as if considering something, and he
“yes, yes, of course,” interrupted prince vasíli impatiently,
“yes, yes, of course!” pierre chimed in, pleased at the arrival of
yes! yes! yes! don’t look at me with such surprise. if you marry
“yes, you’re quite right,” continued the countess. “till now i
“yes, your excellency,” answered the ukrainian gaily, tossing his
yet a young woman. escaping from her father she ran to hide her flushed
yet. he felt that he must not say it.
yet the ladies themselves could not help laughing.
     you.”
you.”
you?”
you, all!” he added in a tone of command.
“you always manage to do things at the wrong time,” continued véra.
“you and your generals won’t get on against buonaparte; you’ll
“you are good in every way, andrew, but you have a kind of
“you are in love with me?” natásha broke in.
“you are mistaken,” said borís deliberately, with a bold and
“you are off to the war, prince?” said anna pávlovna.
you at last decided on anything? are you going to be a guardsman or a
“you at least must tackle him properly, or else if he goes on like
“you, bolkónski, don’t know,” said bilíbin turning to prince
you, but we’ll see what will happen. buonaparte has become a great
you!” came from different sides.
“you came rushing into the drawing room so that everyone felt ashamed
you can’t wait a moment! don’t you see the general wants to pass?”
you can undertake the theater, i society, and you, hippolyte, of course
you cry, sónya, dear love, darling sónya!” and she kissed her and
you’d better listen more carefully!”
you, dear mary, that in spite of his extreme youth his departure for
you did gain a brilliant victory, if even the archduke karl gained a
“you don’t say so!” replied the countess.
“you don’t understand why i say this,” he continued, “but it is
     * you expect to make an income out of the government.
“you give me your word of honor not to go?”
you going, when you might remain here? you are faced by one of two
“you had better go.”
“you had better take care!” said the countess.
“you have a try, hercules,” said he, turning to pierre.
“you have been in paris recently, i believe? i suppose it’s very
“you have not yet seen my husband?”
“you have only lately arrived?” the countess asked him.
you—is that that man suffers, and this don juan, wicked fellow, is
“you just wait a moment, my dear fellow, and listen,” interrupted
“you know, prince, i am not a bonapartist!”
“you know,” said the princess in the same tone of voice and still in
“you live in the country and don’t think the life terrible,” he
you’ll be appointed adjutant somewhere and can snap your fingers when
you’ll like it,” and he patted her cheek. “it will drive all the
“you must excuse me, dear vicomte,” said prince vasíli to the
“you must look for husbands for them whether you like it or not....”
“you must walk, walk as much as possible, as much as possible,” he
“you, my little countess, are a notorious spendthrift,” said the
“you need not have said that to me, father,” said the son with a
young ever to be more to me than a friend, but this sweet friendship,
young ladies. “i can just imagine what a funny figure that policeman
young lady visitor and the countess’ eldest daughter (who was four
young man can inspire in a romantic and loving young girl like yourself.
young man. he sat with his legs up on the sofa as if quite at home and,
young man was an illegitimate son of count bezúkhov, a well-known
young nicholas rostóv, who with his enthusiasm could not bear to remain
young rostóv.
young woman, so soon to become a mother, so full of life and health, and
“you ought to have been there at seven in the morning.”
you please, but do this for my sake! please do! father’s father, our
“your doctor tells you to go to bed earlier,” said prince andrew.
your doing so; but i warn you that if you dare to play the fool in my
“you’re always like that; you thwow a thing down anywhere and forget
your enchanting party,” said he, turning to anna pávlovna.
you’re wrong to think that of me... i... for me... for the honor of
“your excellency...”
“your excellency, i should like to be of use here. allow me to remain
“your excellency, it’s the officer dólokhov, who has been reduced
“your excellency! let us attack them! i’ll dwive them off.”
“your excellency,” said he in german, stepping forward and
“your excellency, you gave him leave yourself, on the march.”
your father.”
your father is rich, i don’t regard myself as a relation of his, and
your father the truth when he was in favor, and in your case it’s my
your greatest pleasure is to be unpleasant to people! go and flirt with
your hands.” he spoke as if those bullets could not kill him, and his
your interests as with a kinswoman, a good, kind, true relation. and i
your old father...” he paused unexpectedly, and then in a querulous
yours? a daughter, i suppose?”
yourself in it. and now, when one wants to smooth the thing over, some
yourselves. it must be here somewhere,” said lavrúshka.
your son bids fair to become an officer distinguished by his industry,
your victory is not a matter for great rejoicing and that you can’t be
you say so much that is bad, does not seem to have had its usual effect
“you see! i have asked,” whispered natásha to her little brother
“you see, my dear... what’s that mess?” she said, pointing to his
“you see, my fwiend,” he said, “we sleep when we don’t love. we
“you see yours is already an officer in the guards, while my nicholas
“you speak to the colonel about this nasty business before other
“you spoke to me of inflammable material,” said he, “but you said
you tell me that among some good things it contains others which our
“you tell the colonel in the presence of other officers that an
youth and his wish to express all that was in his mind.
youthfully glittering eyes.
youthful movement, stood for a moment in the stirrup as if loathe to
“you think i’m an old man and don’t understand the present state
“you think so?” rejoined anna pávlovna in order to say something
“you told me to remind you of the officer dólokhov, reduced to the
you to read when i am gone. you will find them useful.”
“you treat me like an invalid or a child. i see it all! did you behave
you understand that my sole desire is conscientiously to carry out his
“you value your own pride and don’t wish to apologize,” continued
“you’ve been in a hurry. that’s bad!”
“you’ve got it at last.”
“you’ve grown older, tíkhon,” he said in passing to the old man,
“you’ve only just missed him,” said the orderly.
you want to know whether i am happy? no! is she happy? no! but why this
you want to make something out of your company?”
“you were meaning to go out, weren’t you, mamma? do you want the
“you were saying, mr. staff officer...” continued the colonel in an
you will see.”
“you will soon be dressing your men in petticoats! what is this?”
you with my saber!” he shouted, actually drawing his saber from its
you won’t ask!”
“you won’t ask,” natásha’s little brother was saying; “i know
“you won’t be able to find either your baggage or anything else now,
“you won’t bear me a grudge, prokhór ignátych?” said the
“zat, my dear sir, is vy...” he concluded, drinking a tumbler of
zere’s an end of it! and how do you, a young man and a young hussar,
zherkóv. they were under orders to advance next day.
zherkóv touched his horse with the spurs; it pranced excitedly from
zherkóv was followed by an officer of the suite who rode up to the
znaim.
